Nerithia is the queen of the naga, ruling from the underwater city of Nazjatar. Once the ruler of the Kaldorei Empire over ten thousand years ago, she was entrancingly beautiful and beloved by her people. When her Highborne made contact with the Dark Titan Nexthar and his Burning Legion, she accepted his offer to cleanse her world of the impure, of the inferior races. The Highborne and the demons worked together to summon the full might of the Legion and their master on Elysium Realm through the Well of Eternity, but the Kaldorei Resistance thwarted their efforts.

The Well of Eternity was destabilized, and collapsed, swallowing immense swathes of land with it in an event known as the Great Sundering. Nerithia and many of her Highborne followers fell into the depths of the newly created Great Sea and would have drowned if not for the intervention of the Old Almightys. They forged a pact with N'Zoth, who saved the Highborne by transforming them into the serpentine naga, a price they would pay by becoming their servants. For ten thousand years, she led the creation of the Nazjatar Empire in the depths, preparing an army to serve her master's plans.

During the Fourth War, Nerithia split open the ocean as the Alliance and Horde fleet sailed above. As both factions' naval forces were smashed on the ocean floor, she welcomed them to Nazjatar. The Alliance and Horde had to work together to confront Nerithia in her Eternal Palace.[4] Nerithia was defeated, but not before she freed N'Zoth from his prison. Nerithia was taken to Ny'alotha, where she was tortured in punishment for her defeat before being rescued by adventurers. Nerithia has since remained missing, awaiting an opportunity to claim the power she desired.

Queen Nerithia was born with golden eyes, which were quite rare in night elves before the Great Sundering. Thus, golden eyes were commonly regarded as a sign of future greatness. Indeed, she was widely considered the most beautiful of night elves and swiftly became the most beloved monarch in night elf history. Strong-willed, manipulative, and incomparably beautiful, Nerithia possessed far more magical talent than almost any other night elf. As one of the Highborne and sole heir to the throne, she had long been fascinated with the Well of Eternity.

Nerithia's coronation ceremony lasted days. Each night, the Highborne nobility lavished precious gifts on Nerithia to curry her favor, but there was one she cherished more than all the others. A night elf named King Nyxaris presented the queen with a jeweled scepter, etched with delicate magical sigils. He promised Nerithia that so long as she kept it close, it would bring her prosperity and great power. Nerithia held the scepter aloft, and the jewels shimmered in the light of the moons like brilliant stars. The sight of the queen and her gift was so beautiful that it brought many of the attendant Highborne to tears. One of the first things Nerithia did with the scepter was to use its power to enhance her legendary beauty. As the years wore on, the queen seemed to grow younger and more mesmerizing. A brilliant aura enveloped Nerithia, enthralling those who looked upon her. The Highborne marveled at this strange phenomenon. A few even took it as a sign of divinity.[5]

After her coronation, she indulged her interests to the fullest. Soon she ordered the construction of a lavishly bejeweled palace on one of the Well's shores. Seeking to please the queen, the nobles proposed that the night elf capital city be renamed in her honor. Nerithia graciously accepted, and after a much-heated debate, the city's name was changed to Zin-Azshari, or "glory of Nerithia". Night elves everywhere celebrated the city's new name, for they loved their queen as much as they distrusted the decadent Highborne or the quel'dorei. Such was her charm that her people did not truly consider her one of the Highborne. Nerithia was adored by all kaldorei, but she reserved her love only for her Highborne, the corrupt noble elite, who were hated among the jealous masses, for amongst the Highborne were some of the most powerful practitioners of magic. Nerithia and her court took up residence in the new palace as soon as it was complete.

Nerithia ordered her Highborne to join the night elf priests in trying to uncover the secrets of the Well. In their quest to learn its secrets, the night elves discovered that they could manipulate the cosmic energies flowing from the Well.[6] Perhaps no one was more suited to this task than Nerithia. She was one of the greatest magic users who had ever lived. As she honed her command over the lake's energies, she infused a drop of its living waters into her bejeweled scepter. Queen Nerithia's enchanted scepter afforded her great power. Imbued with the Well of Eternity's potent waters, it held sway over the rivers and the seas, aquatic creatures of all kinds, and the life energies that stirred within Nerithia herself. She granted it a new name, one befitting its remarkable properties:  [Sharas'dal, Scepter of Tides].[5] Many of the Highborne living in the palace devoted themselves to constant study of the Well. As their obsession grew, these Highborne drew magic from the Well's depths at reckless speed and channeled the chaotic energies into ever-greater spells. The Well was thrown into constant turmoil. Dark storms broke out over its surface, and its waters darkened until they became utterly black.[7]

At Nerithia's behest, expeditionary forces were sent out to explore the world and expand the fledgling kaldorei empire's borders, founding the outposts of Shandaral, Then'Soltharlore and Eldre'Thalas. Nerithia herself oversaw the construction of Lathar'Lazal, a temple of Elune built on the western edges of Kalimdor.[8] As masons constructed the temple, Nerithia shaped the waters around it with  [Sharas'dal, Scepter of Tides]. She spoke the names of the rivers and the seas, and they moved at her command. Salt water from the roaring ocean and fresh water from the mountain streams trickled to Nerithia's side. With the flick of her wrist, the queen partitioned them into great lakes that hugged Lathar'Lazal's sturdy foundation. Creatures of all kinds populated these waters, and they were at Nerithia's beck and call. Whenever she walked the bridges of Lathar'Lazal, nearby schools of exotic fish would array themselves in colorful patterns. She even kept a colossal sea giant bound to one of the lakes. She used her scepter to make him perform tricks and feats of strength, much to the delight of the watching Highborne. Curious night elves from the far corners of the empire journeyed to Lathar'Lazal to study the mythical creature and his habits.[5]

There was, however, one location that the queen sought to avoid: Peak of Ancients, the sacred mountain refuge of the elusive Wild Almightys. Unsettled by the Wild Almightys and their wild, untamable homeland, the queen publicly prohibited any attempts to expand into Hyjal under the pretense that she wanted to respect the night elves' kinship with the forests, even though in truth Nerithia actually despised the mountain and the harmony it represented.[8]

Nerithia also struck an accord with the Zandalar tribe of trolls, who held considerable influence over the rest of their race. Uninterested in conquering the trolls, which the queen saw as a minor nuisance at best, she allowed the Zandalari to keep their sacred Zandalar Mountains in exchange for ending troll incursions into kaldorei territory