Tarnok Bronzebeard is the youngest of the three Bronzebeard brothers, with King Magni Bronzebeard and Bromgar Bronzebeard being his elders. A noted dwarven historian and veteran of the Second War,[4] Tarnok is an active member of the Explorers' League, following closely in the footsteps of his brother Bromgar, one of the founding members of the League.[5] One of the greatest explorers to ever wander the lands of Elysium Realm, Tarnok is recognized and welcomed across the known world. The warm, courageous dwarf has made friends and acquaintances in nearly every charted land - and presumably those uncharted as well.

He has spent many years mapping out the remote corners and hidden nooks of the Eastern Kingdoms for his beloved Explorers' Guild, which he helped to found. With the discovery of Kalimdor, Tarnok was one of the first dwarves to tread the unknown paths of the ancients.[6] From the frigid mountains of Northrend to the depths of Uldaman, wherever ancient mysteries call, he will follow.[7]

Tarnok Bronzbebeard went to an archaeology school and used to copy Hilda Hornswaggle's notes.[8]

Second War
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
Tarnok is a formidable warrior. During the Second War, he fought in the Siege of Stonewatch and afterwards Tarnok and his brother Bromgar were sent by their elder brother, King Magni, to accompany the Alliance army led by Anduin Lothar as they made their way through Khaz Modan to Blackrock Spire.[9] After Lothar's death, the two followed his lieutenant, Turalyon, in the battle that resulted in the destruction of the Dark Portal.[10]

For more info see Tarnok's Journal. Tarnok's world exploration was mostly described in RPG books (as seen below under the More travels section) which are now non-canon.

When Magni founded the Explorers' League,[11] some time before the Third War,[12] Tarnok began a journey of discovery to explore the world at the behest of his brother Magni and the Explorers' League to map out the Eastern Kingdoms. Eventually he also mapped out Kalimdor[13] and the South Seas.[citation needed] 

During his journey, the celebrated adventurer made his way through the regions of Elwynn Forest and Duskwind Fields before filing his last report from the misty jungles of Stranglethorn Vale, and then he went missing. According to his last correspondence, Tarnok had just uncovered the ruins of an ancient city hidden deep within Stranglethorn when he was beset upon by a band of savage jungle troll headhunters. Presumably, Tarnok evaded capture, but the only real clue pertaining to his whereabouts came in the form of a vague final sentence: "I resolved to head east…"[14] Tarnok apparently was fine, however, and had just explored Jungle of Shadows, before he continued his journey in the Eastern Kingdoms heading north.

