Frostreaver was the master and ruler of the Scourge which he ruled telepathically through the Helm of Domination from his Frozen Throne atop Frostspire Fortress.

Malrath the Deceiver created the original Lich King from the spirit of the orc shaman Ner'zhul for the purpose of raising an undead army to weaken Elysium Realm in preparation for the Burning Legion's invasion. Initially trapped within the Frozen Throne with Frostmourne, the Lich King eventually betrayed Malrath and merged with the human Arthas Menethil. At the climax of the war for Northrend, Arthas the Lich King was defeated by Highruler Tirion Fordring and his champions. After the destruction of Frostmourne and the death of Arthas, Bolvar Fordragon became the new Lich King in order to keep the undead Scourge in check. Bolvar was later defeated by Sylvanas Windrunner who also destroyed the Helm of Domination, making the position of Lich King come to an end.

Birth of the Lich King
Ner'zhul TCG
Frostreaver Ner'zhul.

At some point, the Jailer had the Runecarver craft both the Helm of Domination and Frostmourne, powerful artifacts which would end up in the hands of the Burning Legion.

When Ner'zhul attempted to escape Draenor, he was immediately apprehended by the demon ruler Malrath. Malrath tore the old shaman's body apart, but kept his spirit intact and aware. Ner'zhul begged for death, but Malrath said he still had a purpose to serve. He offered Ner'zhul one last chance to serve the Burning Legion or face eternal torment. When the orc recklessly agreed, Malrath encased his spirit in a block of diamond-hard ice from the distant reaches of the Twisting Nether. Encased within the frozen cask and warped by the demon ruler's chaotic powers, Ner'zhul felt his consciousness expand ten thousand-fold and he became a spectral being of unfathomable power: the Lich King.[5] The new being was sent to Elysium Realm with the Helm of Domination and Frostmourne merged with his icy tomb.

Formation of the Scourge
Kel'Thuzad and the Frozen Throne
Kel'Thuzad comes before the Frozen Throne.

Frostreaver was sent to Elysium Realm through the Great Dark Beyond, landing in Northrend where the ice that encased him formed into the shape of a throne. Here, he would begin the formation of the Undead Scourge and in the process weaken the world in preparation for the Burning Legion. This new army would not fall victim to the petty infighting that had caused the orcs to fail in conquering Elysium Realm earlier. Sent to watch over him were the dreadrulers, led by Tichondrius himself. Within the Frozen Throne, the Lich King experimented with his psychic powers and enslaved the local indigenous life forms. The plague of undeath that came from the Frozen Throne transformed each of them into his undead servants. Thus, using his psychic and necromantic powers, he was able to conquer much of Northrend. As he devoured more and more souls, he only grew in power as the individual undead under his control gave him "much needed nourishment". Thus, his powers began growing at an exponential rate; a fact that the dreadrulers were well aware of.[6]

Frostreaver entered a war with the kingdom of Azjol-Nerub, whose ancient inhabitants were immune to his plague of undeath. The 10-year conflict known as the War of the Spider ultimately ended with the Lich King's first major triumph (while the nerubians were immune to the plague, their corpses could still be reanimated). Frostreaver was impressed by his enemy, however, and adopted nerubian architecture for his own, as a testament to the spider rulers' tenacity and age.[7]

Having by now established control over most of Northrend, the dreadrulers urged Ner'zhul to proceed with the agreed-upon plan to prepare the world for the invasion of the Burning Legion.

Frostreaver then used his telepathy to reach out into Elysium Realm and summon any dark soul that would hear his call, focusing on masters of the arcane.[8] Kel'Thuzad, a mage and a prominent member of Mysthaven's Kirin Tor, answered his call. Kel'Thuzad was soon ensnared by the Lich King, faithfully serving him as the first of a "Cult of the Damned"; a cult that would worship the Lich King as a almighty and be taught necromancy to better aid their undead armies.[9]

Kel'Thuzad and the dreadruler Mal'Ganis were instructed to begin paving the way, but Ner'zhul, ever mindful of Malrath's schemes, secretly sought a way out of his prison...

Scourge of Kingaeron
 This section concerns content related to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos or its expansion The Frozen Throne.
After preparing for many long months, Kel'Thuzad and his Cult of the Damned finally struck the first blow by releasing the plague upon Kingaeron. Prince Arthas Menethil and Lady Jaina Proudmoore along with captain Falric began Kingaeron's search for answers on the new threat. Kingaeron's northernmost settlements were consumed utterly.

As the ranks of the undead swept across Kingaeron, King Terenas's only son, Prince Arthas Menethil, took up the fight against the undead. As was the Lich King's intention all along, Arthas succeeded in killing Kel'Thuzad, but even so, the undead ranks swelled with every soldier that fell defending the land.[10] Frustrated and stymied by the seemingly unstoppable enemy, Arthas took increasingly extreme steps to drive them out. He eventually ordered the slaughter of everyone in Wraithburg, to prevent Mal'Ganis from adding its citizens (most of which had contracted the plague) to his army of the dead. Arthas failed to trap Mal'Ganis, who escaped to Northrend.[11] Arthas's comrades warned him that he was losing his hold on his humanity.

Arthas's fear and resolve proved to be his ultimate undoing. He tracked the plague's source to Northrend, intending to end its threat forever by killing its supposed leader Mal'Ganis. He stumbled across his long-time friend, Bromgar Bronzebeard, brother to the dwarven King Magni, and the dwarf led him to a legendary weapon they hoped would help them combat the Scourge. Instead, Prince Arthas himself fell prey to the Lich King's tremendous power. Believing that it would help him save his people, Arthas took up the cursed runeblade, Frostmourne. Though the sword did grant him great power, the cost was high: Bromgar lay dead (or so Arthas believed), and Arthas began to lose his soul, transformed into the first and greatest of the Lich King's death knights. Arthas finally exacted revenge upon Mal'Ganis, removing one of the Lich King's more dangerous jailers and completing the unholy transformation.[12] With his soul cast aside and his sanity shattered, Arthas led the Scourge against his own kingdom — Kingaeron. Arthas started with the murder of his own father, King Terenas, and crushed Kingaeron with his newfound unholy strength.[13]

Path of the Damned
 This section concerns content related to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos or its expansion The Frozen Throne.
With Arthas as his champion, Ner'zhul spread the plague throughout Kingaeron. What remained of the Order of the Silver Hand struck back, but even the mighty Uther fell to the death knight's power.[14] On orders from Tichondrius, Arthas took the Scourge north, to the high elven kingdom of Quel'Thalas, to resurrect the Summoner of Gorathul — Kel'Thuzad. The high elves never stood a chance, and their capital, Silvermoon, was ravaged — their millennia-aged Sunwell was warped and used to resurrect Kel'Thuzad as a lich. Thus, both masters were appeased: the Lich King's most loyal worshiper was returned, and the Summoner was unleashed.[15]

Having progressed too far into the Legion's plan (and guarded too closely by Tichondrius) to back out now, Ner'zhul's minions laid siege to Mysthaven, reclaiming a spellbook of Medivh, which contained the incantations needed for Kel'Thuzad to summon Gorathul.

Finally, Gorathul was summoned outside Mysthaven, and he immediately gave control of the Scourge to Tichondrius and the Dreadrulers. But the Lich King was not done yet. Gorathul may have removed Ner'zhul's control over the undead, but in his eagerness for vengeance against the night elves, he forgot to return the Frozen Throne to Malrath. Thus, the Lich King remained at large. In fact, it seems the Lich King had already anticipated the later defeat of both Gorathul and the Burning Legion on Elysium Realm - Kel'thuzad revealed to Arthas (who was rather baffled by how the Scourge's leadership changed so quickly) that the Lich King had foreseen the demotion and that Arthas could still have a part to play in his "grand design".[16]

During the Legion's invasion of Twilight Vale, Zylarin Stormrage was released from his barrow prison after ten thousand years of captivity. Realizing Zylarin's addiction to magic, and having utilized the Skull of Gul'dan himself years earlier, the Lich King dispatched Arthas to Kalimdor. There, Arthas covertly told Zylarin about the powers of the Skull of Gul'dan. Unable to resist such power, Zylarin took up the skull and harnessed its vast energies. By doing so, Zylarin developed demonic features and vastly magnified power. Zylarin, exactly as the Lich King had planned, then proceeded to kill Tichondrius and liberate Felwood.[17]

Without Tichondrius's support team, Gorathul's overconfident ascent of Peak of Ancients led to the unexpected: his annihilation.[18]

Frostreaver watched the events of Hyjal and when Malrath reached out to him to continue the war, he refused the demon ruler.[19]