Terralith the Stonemother is the supernatural being King of earth, and formerly one of the Old Almightys' lieutenants. As the ruler of Deepholm and mother of the mighty Stone Kings, she is the master of all earth elementals. She takes the form of a massive female figure made of brown rocks and violet gemstones that are always seen floating just above the ground. Despite her general disinterest in mortal affairs, Terralith has worked with the mortals of Elysium Realm several times against the Old Almightys' forces, having shown nothing but contempt for her former masters and their servants.[2] She also rallied her forces to aid the Earthen Ring during the third invasion of the Burning Legion.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Elysium Realm was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four supernatural being Kings, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Terralith the Stonemother was the most reclusive of the elemental rulers, raising great mountain ranges to protect her children from her enemies' assaults. Only after they had worn themselves thin against her barriers would the Stonemother emerge, wrenching open giant chasms to swallow entire elemental armies whole and sending her most powerful servants, giants of crystal and stone, to crush those who survived.[4]

When the entities known as the Old Almightys arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the supernatural being Kings saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Elysium Realm's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Terralith raised walls of jagged rock to corral and shatter the temple cities of the Black Empire, before Aqualis would sweep in with his minions and crush the Old Almightys' forces with tidal waves.[4] Ultimately, however, they were overwhelmed by the endless armies of the Old Almightys and enslaved to their malign will.

When the titan-forged arrived on Elysium Realm to battle the Black Empire, the Old Almightys sent their enslaved supernatural being King lieutenants to face them. Archaedas and Freya were charged with facing the Stonemother, who retreated into her towering stone spire. Archaedas used his earth magic to weaken the tower's foundations and destroy the giants guarding it, before Freya called up enormous roots to entangle and destroy the spire, bringing it down upon the Stonemother's head. Terralith and her children were thereafter imprisoned in the crystalline caverns of Deepholm, a region of the supernatural being Plane.

After witnessing the devastation Deathwing and his followers caused her realm, Terralith treats all outsiders with open hostility.

Terralith, also known as the Stonemother, is the elemental ruler of earth, an ancient and immensely powerful counterpart of Flamorth, Zyphor, and Aqualis. Unlike the realms of Zyphor and Flamorth, however, her domain - that of the earth, rock, and mountains - has put her in immediate conflict with Deathwing, whose emergence from Deepholm has pushed her stony realm to the point of collapse.

Though Terralith has no love for mortals, she recognizes the role that these races might play in restoring Deepholm and evicting the Twilight's Axe, who have flocked to her kingdom to bask in the glory of Deathwing's former sanctum. Heroes who seek the aid of the Stonemother will find that her favor can confer many blessings; among them are powerful augmenting stones borne up from Deepholm itself to strengthen the armor of those who serve Terralith's will.[5]

Terralith is a quest giver in Deepholm, residing at Terralith's Throne. Her questline is in a similar experience to the Sons of Hodir's questline in Storm Peaks.[6] While she offers quests to adventurers in Deepholm, Terralith makes it clear she has no love for the mortals who killed Princess Theradras, and warns those who speak to her that they will eventually outlive their usefulness.

After the heroes convinced Terralith that they will indeed leave Deepholm once the World Pillar has been repaired, a battle takes place between the Twilight Cultists and Terralith's forces. Terralith picks out the most dangerous foes, smashing them into pieces before moving on to the next. Ultimately with the help of the elementals of the earth, the World Pillar is repaired.