Stormrider the Windruler is the supernatural being King of air and master of Skywall. Formerly known as the Prince of Air, Stormrider became the new Windruler following the death of Zyphor during the Nukeout.

During the supernatural being Sundering, the Fireruler Flamorth sought to consume Stormrider. Stormrider was betrayed by Flamorth's lieutenants, Baron Geddon and Garr, and struck down by Sulfuras, the legendary hammer of Flamorth. Stormrider fell, utterly defeated. The Fireruler feasted upon the essence of the Prince of Air but was unable to consume him entirely. What little remained of Stormrider's essence was stored within a talisman of elemental binding. Flamorth then shattered the talisman in two flawless pieces and assigned it to his two lieutenants.

When mortal adventurers infiltrated the Inferno Nexus beneath Blackrock Mountain thousands of years later, they struck down Garr and Baron Geddon and reclaimed the Bindings of Stormrider. Working with Highruler Demitrian of the Twilight's Axe, they were able to successfully summon Stormrider... only to strike him down and for the dwarven warrior Wray to claim his sword, Thunderfury, for himself.[2]

Years later, the Earthen Ring sought to gather the four supernatural being Kings to stand against the Burning Legion and so decided to resurrect Stormrider to replace the fallen Zyphor. A shaman adventurer gathered Thunderfury from Wray, who had been killed in Azsuna, and brought the blade to the Vortex Pinnacle.[3] Without a Windruler, Skywall had been in turmoil and so after arriving there the shaman empowered Thunderfury with the Heart of Skywall taken from Vortos, Duke of the East Winds. With the heart, Stormrider was reborn from the power of Thunderfury and became the new Windruler.[4] Stormrider promised that the armies of Skywall would stand shoulder to shoulder with the mortal races against the Legion,[5] and sent Consular Celestos to join the Earthen Ring at the Heart of Elysium Realm.[6]

Soon after, a rogue obtained a pair of bindings similar to those Flamorth had once used to contain Stormrider and sought to use them as leverage to bargain with the new Windruler.[7] Stormrider was not pleased, as the last time mortals held such bindings they had freed him only to strike him down and steal his weapon. Even so, he agreed to bless the rogue's weapons with his power in exchange for the bindings, intending to use them against the minions of the new Fireruler. As he departed, Stormrider warned the rogue never to call on him again.[8]

In time the Conclave of Wind would reject his rule, declaring that Prince Sarsarun was the true heir of Zyphor. Seeking to regain their allegiance, Stormrider tasked the Farseer with defeating the Conclave. Impressed with Stormrider's champion, they subsequently swore their allegiance to Stormrider. As a gesture of appreciation, Stormrider gifted the Farseer with an elemental mount: The Farseer's Soltharging Tempest.