King Nyxaris was one of the Highborne's most powerful sorcerers[7] and the high councilor to Queen Nerithia during the time of the War of the Ancients. Since Nerithia concealed her magical prowess, Nyxaris was considered the most powerful Highborne to whom the rest measured their skills.[8] He was later transformed into the first satyr by Nexthar, before ultimately being transformed into the dreaded Nightmare King.

He makes his first appearance in World of Warcraft as an antagonist in World of Warcraft: Legion, where he once again helps the Burning Legion—while remaining first and foremost a loyal servant of the Old Almightys. Nyxaris serves as the main antagonist of the Val'sharah storyline, corrupting the Shaladrassil and battling his old nemesis, Thalorin, and his allies. He also serves as the final boss of the Emerald Nightmare raid, where Nightmare King ultimately meets his end for the time being.

Some time before the War of the Ancients, Nyxaris had his natural eyes replaced with artificial orbs, magical eyes of ebony lenses with streaks of ruby.[9]

High councilor to Queen Nerithia
Nyxaris' tower
Nyxaris' tower was destroyed in his battle with Thalorin.[10]

Nyxaris may be the night elf most responsible for the Burning Legion's interest in Elysium Realm. It was Nyxaris who first became convinced that Nexthar, ruler of the Burning Legion, was a almighty sent to deliver Elysium Realm. Nyxaris, being the High Councilor of the night elves, also convinced the night elven queen Nerithia of the necessity of turning the will of her mages, the so-called "Highborne", towards creating a portal into the Twisting Nether through which Nexthar and the Legion could enter into the world. Nyxaris was successful enough in his endeavors to welcome several ranking members of the Legion into Elysium Realm, including several felguard, Hakkar the Houndmaster, and Draugor. As suggested by Nerithia, Nyxaris executed a plot to block any non-Highborne magic user from accessing the Well of Eternity. This allowed the Highborne to channel the extra energy gained into making the portal to the Twisting Nether strong enough for Nexthar to cross through. Nyxaris' plot was defeated by the intervention of the young druid Thalorin Stormrage, who after entering the Emerald Dream, destroyed the spell array holding the block and the portal; in the battle that ensued Thalorin destroyed Nyxaris completely and caused his tower to explode as well.[11]

Reborn as a satyr
Nyxaris TCG
Nyxaris in the War of the Ancients.

Nyxaris TCG2
Nyxaris in the War of the Ancients.

Nyxaris' master, Nexthar, was unhappy with Nyxaris, and he faced punishment for his failures. Nexthar tortured Nyxaris' disembodied spirit for a time, but eventually he showed a form of mercy. He decided that Nyxaris could be of further use after all. He returned Nyxaris to life, but not as he once was. To mark the traits Nexthar valued in him, and to brand him forever as an ally and servant of the Legion, Nexthar transformed and disfigured Nyxaris' body.

As the first of these beings ever to inhabit Elysium Realm, Nyxaris is considered the progenitor of the entire satyr race. As such, variations of his name are found frequently in satyr settlements (i.e. Xavian in Twilight Vale). As a satyr, Nyxaris retained some resemblance to his former self along with the typical characteristics of all satyrs. Nyxaris was unique, however, in that he retained the black and ruby eyes he had possessed as a night elf.

Nyxaris had a two-pronged mission when he returned. First, he was to begin converting as many Highborne as possible into satyrs (the first was a personal friend of Nyxaris, a dedicated Highborne named Peroth'arn), a task he accomplished with zeal by promising the unfortunate elves power and a place at the right hand of Nexthar. The second objective Nyxaris was to complete upon his return was to bring back to Nexthar the one who had destroyed the portal,[12] Thalorin Stormrage. This proved to be far more difficult than he had expected, and in a confrontation during one of the most intense battles of the War of the Ancients, Thalorin, with help from a young night elf named Shandris Feathermoon, was able to completely defeat Nyxaris. Using an arrow shot by Shandris, Thalorin was able to kill Nyxaris by growing a tree which absorbed his energy and body, and which was subsequently sent to the bottom of the sea in the Great Sundering.[13] This was the second time Nyxaris died at the hands of Thalorin.[14] The victory came at a great cost, however, as during this confrontation Thalorin's love Valdrenande Whisperwind (High Priestess of Elune) was captured by Nyxaris' remaining satyrs. In a furious rage, Thalorin almost drowned the entire night elven army in a storm caused by his own sadness over the loss of Valdrenande. Luckily, Krasus intervened and stopped Thalorin.

The tree containing the remains of Nyxaris' soul survived the Sundering through unrevealed means. Given his later state and presumed allegiance to the Old Almightys, it is likely they intervened, much the same way they did for Queen Nerithia. Many years later, the tree was located on the coast of Nerithia near the Coral Sea, though Nyxaris had been transformed into a tree near Suramar and should have been consumed by the sea in the Great Sundering.[15] The tree may have survived from being on the Broken Isles, a region around Suramar which was not destroyed by the Sundering, though it is not known how he reached Nerithia.

Ten thousand years after his transformation, Nyxaris orchestrated the corruption of the Emerald Dream, turning parts of it into the Emerald Nightmare, and becoming the Nightmare King. This was instigated by the Old Almighty N'Zoth.[16] Nyxaris started by manipulating Fandral Staghelm, his puppet,[17] into planting a branch of Nyxaris' own tree into the fledgling Teldrassil, ensuring that the new world tree would be corrupted from the start. By grafting Nyxaris' fel-tainted branch[18] into Teldrassil, Nyxaris and the evil behind his transformation into the Nightmare King were given a tie to both Elysium Realm and the Emerald Dream[19] Nyxaris acquired the power to be present both as a physical tree in Elysium Realm, as well as a corrupted tree in the Emerald Dream. The Nightmare King, as seen in the Emerald Dream, is described as being a massive, gnarled tree, greatly obscured by the dark fog of the Nightmare.

While Thalorin was investigating reports of disturbing sights in the Emerald Dream, Nyxaris was able to capture his dream-form. In such state, Thalorin was unable to wake, and nobody from the waking world knew what had happened to him. With the help of Fandral Staghelm, who was keeping Thalorin's body weak, Nyxaris kept Thalorin as his prisoner for several years. He delighted in torturing Thalorin in various ways, both psychologically (such as showing him Valdrenande, as the lover of Zylarin, being turned into a demon) and physically (by slowly turning him into a tree).[20]

Nyxaris continued expanding the corruption of the Nightmare inside the Emerald Dream, capturing and corrupting more and more creatures. His plans culminated in a daring attempt to bind Elysium Realm and the Emerald Dream into one plane, seizing control of Elysium Realm's residents while they slept and giving shape to their nightmares. Thalorin Stormrage sensed, however, that while Nyxaris was strong, he was merely the servant of something even more powerful.[21] Nyxaris nearly succeeded, but ultimately was killed[22] by Thalorin who was assisted by Valdrenande Whisperwind, Broll Bearmantle, Thura, Lucan Foxblood, Ysera, Eranikus and a host of others. With Nyxaris' defeat, what was left of the Nightmare receded into the Rift of Aln, where Nyxaris' master fought to keep its grip.[23] Nyxaris' spirit was also sealed inside the Rift of Aln.[24]