Zyphor

Zyphor the Windruler was the supernatural being King of air. He ruled over his domain of Skywall from his seat at the Throne of the Four Winds. Of all the elemental rulers, Zyphor was known to be the cleverest[2] and was once the foremost tactician in the Old Almightys' horrific armies.[3] Aligned with the corrupted Dragon Aspect Deathwing and his fellow supernatural being King Flamorth in their efforts to usher in the end of days, Zyphor was defeated by the mortal champions of Elysium Realm, who were able to enter Skywall from the breach in Uldum and destroy the Windruler within his own sanctum.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Elysium Realm was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four supernatural being Kings, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Zyphor the Windruler was the most cunning of them all, sending his minions to spy on his enemies and sow distrust among their ranks. He would pit the other rulers against each other, only to then unleash the full fury of his servants on his weakened foes, sending lightning and cyclones to ravage the world's surface.[4]

When the entities known as the Old Almightys arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the supernatural being Kings saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Elysium Realm's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Zyphor's tempests joined with the fiery minions of Flamorth the Fireruler, creating blistering firestorms and cyclones of flame that reduced the Old Almightys' citadels to ash. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[4]

When the titan-forged arrived on Elysium Realm to battle the Black Empire, the Old Almightys sent their enslaved supernatural being King lieutenants to face them. Zyphor waged war against Solthar, Thorim, and Hodir, who used their combined powers over the winds and storms to drive the Windruler back to his lair atop the highest peaks on Elysium Realm. Once there, the three keepers turned Zyphor's own powers against him and defeated him atop his domain. The Windruler and his air elementals were thereafter imprisoned in the spires of Skywall, a region of the supernatural being Plane.[4]

Thousands of years ago, the famed tol'vir smith Irmaat crafted a pair of magnificent handblades. Unsatisfied with his work, Irmaat tried to capture the essence of Zyphor the Windruler to infuse into his blades. Zyphor was not amused and remembered how the smith had captured his djinns. To spite the smith, Zyphor poured unspeakable amounts of raw elemental fury into the handblades. When Irmaat attempted to unleash their might, a great vortex sprang up, engulfed his city, and scattered the weapons to the winds

Immediately prior to the Nukeout, the supernatural being Kings discovered a way to break through their prison and send their armies into major cities throughout Elysium Realm.[6] Zyphor ordered his lieutenant and herald, Prince Sarsarun, to collaborate with the Twilight Axe in their invasions of Ironhold City and Skyspire as part of the supernatural being Unrest world event. These city assaults were then rebuffed by their defenders as Varian Wrynn and Cairne Bloodhoof led the charge against Sarsarun's hideout in the Ahn'Qiraj Terrace.[7] This was the first major loss for Zyphor since Prince Stormrider's defeat at mortal hands years ago and revealed the Windruler's new allegiance with Deathwing.