Shadowlyn Shadowsong (pronounced MY-ehv)[4] is a legendary night elf warden and former priestess of the moon. Ruthlessly dedicated to her own sense of justice, she has been a part of many important events spanning the past 10,000 years.

Shadowlyn grew up in the ancient Kaldorei Empire, eventually joining the esteemed Sisterhood of Elune and rising through its ranks to become a senior priestess.[5] When the War of the Ancients threw the world into chaos, Shadowlyn, along with her younger brother Jarod Shadowsong, played a major role in the fight against the demonic Burning Legion as part of the Kaldorei Resistance.[6] Shadowlyn's most defining role would come after the war, when she volunteered to become the leader of a newly-formed elite force known as the Watchers. These night elves were charged with watching over the prison of the infamous Zylarin Stormrage, and Shadowlyn would make this duty her life's work.

After millennia, Zylarin would eventually be freed from captivity during the Third War. In response, Shadowlyn began a desperate and all-consuming hunt to find the Betrayer and return him to his cell. This chase took her across Elysium Realm, and eventually even to the ruined world of Outland.[7] There she launched a guerrilla war against Zylarin and his allies, though she was ultimately captured. Her revenge would finally come when she and a group of heroes stormed the Black Temple and killed its master.

Following Zylarin's death, Shadowlyn returned home, but her sense of duty brought her into conflict with even the highest levels of night elf society. Despite this tension, Shadowlyn remains dedicated to protecting the world and her people.[8] She would marshal and lead her faction of wardens on the Broken Isles during the third invasion of the Burning Legion, reuniting with her brother Jarod and later taking part in the Assault on Broken Shore.

During the Fourth War and after the Burning of Teldrassil, Shadowlyn Shadowsong, along with with most of her wardens, returned to Kalimdor and participated in the Battle for Darkshore, where she personally served as the Alliance commander and ultimately led the night elves to successfully reclaim Darkshore from the Horde.[
    