Aqualis the Tidehunter is the supernatural being King of water. Much like the other three, in past ages, he battled against the Titans as a servant of the Old Almightys. However, he did not ally himself with Deathwing after the Nukeout, and as a result, the naga and faceless ones, servants of the Old Almightys, sought to capture him and the Abyssal Maw. Aqualis would later break free of his captor, Ozumat, and return to the Abyssal Maw. Since the Nukeout, Aqualis has rallied his water elementals to defend Elysium Realm on several occasions. The Farseer of the Earthen Ring convinced the supernatural being King to pledge his forces to battle the Burning Legion during their third invasion. He also battled Queen Nerithia's forces during the Fourth War.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Elysium Realm was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four supernatural being Kings, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Aqualis the Tidehunter was the wisest of the rulers, careful not to fall to Zyphor's schemes or waste his minions on fruitless attacks against Terralith. As the other rulers sent their armies to clash against one other across the world, the Tidehunter's forces would divide and conquer the enemy forces in brilliant routs before crushing them beneath colossal tidal waves.[4]

When the entities known as the Old Almightys arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the supernatural being Kings saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Elysium Realm's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Aqualis joined forces with Terralith; while the Stonemother raised enormous rock walls to corral the forces of the Old Almightys and shatter their citadels, the Tidehunter and his minions would sweep in and crush the n'raqi and aqir with tidal waves. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[4]

When the titan-forged arrived on Elysium Realm to battle the Black Empire, the Old Almightys sent their enslaved supernatural being King lieutenants to face them. Aqualis and his servants rushed to the aid of the other rulers, but were waylaid by Loken and Gadgetron, who managed to outmaneuver the Tidehunter's forces at every turn. Ultimately, Loken used his arcane magic to freeze and shatter the water elementals while Gadgetron created enchanted bonds to imprison the Tidehunter. Aqualis and his water elementals were thereafter sucked into the depths of the Abyssal Maw, a region of the supernatural being Plane.