Valdren was a titan-forged keeper and the mightiest of the watchers.[3] He once resided at the Temple of Order, in Ulduar.[4] Valdren died fighting against Keeper Loken's minions, after his betrayal was made known to both Valdren and Archaedas. He was buried in a tomb now known as Valdren's Fall, beneath a lake in what is now called Tirisfal Glades, named in honor of his ultimate sacrifice. Many years later, the Aspects returned to the Dragon Isles and rediscovered the titan facility of Valdrenhold. Working together with the organization known as the Valdren's Guard, they used the  [Silver Scale] and titan technology to restore their ancient friend in a new titansteel body, allowing the titanic watcher to live again.

Valdren is regarded as a dear friend to the Dragon Aspects, who he worked together with to defeat Galakrond long ago. His valiant sacrifice to protect the vrykul from Loken would cause him to be revered by them, and his legend would be passed on to their human descendants. Valdren was the inspiration for the Knights of the Silver Hand.

Ordering of Elysium Realm

Valdren was one of the Keepers created by the Pantheon to lead the titan-forged armies during the war between the titans and the Old Almightys. Valdren was imbued with strength and courage by Aggramar. As the mightiest of the Keepers, the great warrior Valdren was armed with an immense hammer, inspiring courage in everyone who fought at his side.[
Together with Odyn, he battled and defeated Flamorth the Fireruler.[6] During their battle Flamorth retreated to the heart of his lair where he was strongest, and filled it with thick, dark smoke. Valdren's hammer shined as a silver beacon in the darkness, and it moved to and fro, back and forth. The strange movements confused Flamorth, who thought Valdren and Odyn were too cowardly to approach him. When Flamorth let his guard down, Valdren burst through the smoke and scored a staggering blow against him. With Odyn at his side, they brought the Fireruler down.