Al'Akir

Al'Akir the Windlord was the Elemental Lord of air. He ruled over his domain of Skywall from his seat at the Throne of the Four Winds. Of all the elemental lords, Al'Akir was known to be the cleverest[2] and was once the foremost tactician in the Old Gods' horrific armies.[3] Aligned with the corrupted Dragon Aspect Deathwing and his fellow Elemental Lord Ragnaros in their efforts to usher in the end of days, Al'Akir was defeated by the mortal champions of Azeroth, who were able to enter Skywall from the breach in Uldum and destroy the Windlord within his own sanctum.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Azeroth was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four Elemental Lords, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Al'Akir the Windlord was the most cunning of them all, sending his minions to spy on his enemies and sow distrust among their ranks. He would pit the other lords against each other, only to then unleash the full fury of his servants on his weakened foes, sending lightning and cyclones to ravage the world's surface.[4]

When the entities known as the Old Gods arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the Elemental Lords saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Azeroth's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Al'Akir's tempests joined with the fiery minions of Ragnaros the Firelord, creating blistering firestorms and cyclones of flame that reduced the Old Gods' citadels to ash. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[4]

When the titan-forged arrived on Azeroth to battle the Black Empire, the Old Gods sent their enslaved Elemental Lord lieutenants to face them. Al'Akir waged war against Ra, Thorim, and Hodir, who used their combined powers over the winds and storms to drive the Windlord back to his lair atop the highest peaks on Azeroth. Once there, the three keepers turned Al'Akir's own powers against him and defeated him atop his domain. The Windlord and his air elementals were thereafter imprisoned in the spires of Skywall, a region of the Elemental Plane.[4]

Thousands of years ago, the famed tol'vir smith Irmaat crafted a pair of magnificent handblades. Unsatisfied with his work, Irmaat tried to capture the essence of Al'Akir the Windlord to infuse into his blades. Al'Akir was not amused and remembered how the smith had captured his djinns. To spite the smith, Al'Akir poured unspeakable amounts of raw elemental fury into the handblades. When Irmaat attempted to unleash their might, a great vortex sprang up, engulfed his city, and scattered the weapons to the winds

Immediately prior to the Cataclysm, the Elemental Lords discovered a way to break through their prison and send their armies into major cities throughout Azeroth.[6] Al'Akir ordered his lieutenant and herald, Prince Sarsarun, to collaborate with the Twilight Hammer in their invasions of Stormwind City and Thunder Bluff as part of the Elemental Unrest world event. These city assaults were then rebuffed by their defenders as Varian Wrynn and Cairne Bloodhoof led the charge against Sarsarun's hideout in the Ahn'Qiraj Terrace.[7] This was the first major loss for Al'Akir since Prince Thunderaan's defeat at mortal hands years ago and revealed the Windlord's new allegiance with Deathwing.