Archimonde.

In his youth, Archimonde was the apprentice to the skilled eredar sorcerer Thal'kiel, leader of an order of magi called the Wakeners where he initially held the position of an acolyte.[12] There were rumors that Archimonde coveted his master's power and influence, but Thal'kiel himself dismissed these claims, for Archimonde had shown him nothing but devotion, having even gone to great lengths to create a custom-made crown for the eredar leader, taking the measurements for his head himself. At the time, Thal'kiel and Archimonde were among the most prominent proponents of phrenology — the study of skull shape as a means to determine intellectual aptitude — and Thal'kiel in particular was noted for having the archetypal sorcerer's skull, for which he was widely admired.[13]

However, when Thal'kiel began preparing to install himself as dictator of Argus by summoning an army of powerful demons, Archimonde was the only one of the Wakeners to not be united behind their leader. Although he had no aversion to demons — in fact, he rather enjoyed them — Archimonde was highly ambitious and was eager to prove himself to the eredar's two leaders, Kil'jaeden and Velen. The night prior to the Wakeners' planned coup, he snuck away and revealed his master's plans to the rulers or Argus and promised to bring them the traitor's head himself.[13]

Archimonde himself broke the magical wards hiding Thal'kiel's army and led a contingent of magi to storm the Wakeners' secret training grounds. The Wakeners were caught off guard and easily defeated, and the demons were quickly slaughtered when they found themselves leaderless. As Thal'kiel tried to summon in more reinforcements, Archimonde decapitated his former master with a single strike of his blade. After the battle, the Wakeners' bodies were burned and their writings destroyed, and Archimonde was hailed as a hero. Soon afterward, he commissioned one of Argus' finest jewelers to gild Thal'kiel's skull and then proudly displayed it in his domicile, ostensibly as a warning to the other eredar not to follow in Thal'kiel's footsteps, though in truth he had it adorned with metals that would enhance its magic-channeling abilities.[13]

It's unknown exactly when in his life that it happened, but he was also a graduate from the Conservatory of the Arcane.[5]

Triumvirate
Archimonde would eventually rise to lead the eredar alongside Velen and Kil'jaeden. Archimonde became Master of the Augari. The Sigil of Awakening was the Conservatory of the Arcane's highest honor. Only Archimonde's chosen could pursue this accolade. He had created trials specifically for this purpose, but the uninitiated could also participate.[14]

Archimonde was not known for his willingness to suffer indecision, he preferred to teach by rewarding frustration with more frustration—punishment with more punishment. Absolute conviction was required to succeed under him. Archimonde expected greatness from his pupils. Only the most imaginative minds, the most adroit of intellects, could ever truly fathom the deepest reaches of their magic. He was an individual consumed by the pursuit of power. Only those who could match his lust would fare well under his tutelage.[15][16][17]

Over time, however, a demonic presence began to infiltrate Archimonde's mind, using Thal'kiel's adorned skull as a conduit. When he slept, Archimonde saw visions of entire civilizations being consumed by a glorious army, at the head of which was a dark god who whispered promises of unimaginable strength. Thus, Archimonde was the first to accept Sargeras' offer when the Dark Titan arrived on Argus.[13]

Demon of the Burning Legion
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
Lore in Short - Eredar leaders
The triumvirate divided in Lore in Short.

Roughly thirteen thousand years ago,[18] the three rulers were contacted by Sargeras and offered the answer to the single most important question: "what is the ultimate underlying flaw of the universe?" in exchange for loyalty. The eredar, as a race thirsty for knowledge, accepted the offer, though Archimonde did so mostly for power, while Velen not only rejected it, but rebelled and fled Argus with his followers thanks to the naaru to become the draenei. Kil'jaeden then vowed that he would seek for them and destroy them. Archimonde was against Kil'jaeden's search of draenei, but did not take any action.[10]

Archimonde became Sargeras' military commander, triumphing on many worlds,[6] and used his powerful will to drive the demonic masses to extreme violence and barbarism, drawing out and tempering the strength of all those who served beneath him. After the recruitment of the eredar, the ranks of Sargeras' Burning Legion swelled with new demonic races. Among them were the monstrous annihilan, or "pit lords", whom Archimonde empowered and conscripted to serve as living siege engines.[19] Archimonde put the skull of his old master, Thal'kiel, to good use against the Legion's enemies, using it to exert his control over multitudes of demons to obliterate his opponents, though it has since passed between a handful of Sargeras' elite generals.[13]

The War of the Ancients
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
 This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up.
Malorne WotA
The Ancient Guardian Malorne battling Archimonde during the War of the Ancients.

Some three thousand years later, when Queen Azshara's reckless magics began to attract the attention of Sargeras, Archimonde, Mannoroth, and Hakkar the Houndmaster led the catastrophic, destructive invasion. With thousands of demonic servants in their wake, they poured through the portal beneath the Well of Eternity, and were let loose upon the ancient land of Kalimdor — razing every structure and spilling the blood of every creature they came across. During the war, Archimonde succeeded in killing the Ancient Malorne, one of the most powerful of Azeroth's demigods, by snapping his neck. This event was one of the only times in recorded history where Ysera opened her eyes.

However, a young druid — Malfurion Stormrage — gathered a small band of night elves, and with the help of Cenarius' woodland allies combined with Alexstrasza's mighty dragonflights, managed to beat back the demonic hordes. Before the destruction, Archimonde caught Jarod Shadowsong and sadistically toyed with him - beating him to near-death. In the titanic battle, the portal became unstable and collapsed — sundering the world. This event banished Archimonde and his minions back into the burning pits of the Twisting Nether.

The Second Invasion
 This section concerns content related to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos or its expansion The Frozen Throne.
Preparations
Archimonde and sand Dalaran
Archimonde about to crush Dalaran.

Archimonde raged and brooded for ten thousand years in the dark recesses of the Twisting Nether as they planned for a new invasion as per Sargeras's will. Again, their target would be the second Well of Eternity.[6] His colleague, Kil'jaeden, found the means through Ner'zhul and, eventually, Gul'dan, on the world of Draenor. With Mannoroth's sinister help, the chieftains of the orcish Hordes were corrupted, and a bloodlust came over them that swept them into a tumultuous frenzy that engulfed their world. The orcs were to be the harbinger of the Legion's return, destroying all they beheld so that none could oppose the Legion. However, after the exodus into Azeroth and Draenor's eventual destruction, the Horde was defeated by the humans of former Arathor and their allies, and the orcs failed in their unholy mission.

However, an old tool was found that could once again be put to use. Ner'zhul, the dark shaman of the Shadowmoon Clan, was sent spiraling with his most faithful disciples into the Twisting Nether after attempting to find new worlds to control, and he was found by Kil'jaeden and the Burning Legion. Over time, he was transformed into the Lich King, an ethereal spirit that controlled the undead Scourge, a force so mighty, that it was expected to succeed where the Horde had failed.

The Undead Scourge had exceeded their expectations.

Archimonde was to command the Legion's invasion, but he needed the means of getting to Azeroth. Due to his monumental power gain much more magic was needed to summon him, and he waited until finally he was contacted by Kel'Thuzad the Summoner, who, after stealing the Book of Medivh from Dalaran with Arthas' assistance, began the lengthy summoning process. As he proceeded, the skies were split asunder, and mighty infernals and felhounds were brought to aid the Scourge. Finally, it was completed, and Archimonde was brought into the world of Azeroth.