Cenarius (pronounced sənɑ:riəs, like "sin-AH-ree-uhs"),[3] Lord of the Forest and patron of many druids,[4] is one of the most powerful and influential demigods of Azeroth. Worshipped by the night elves since their early history, the Son of Malorne taught the elves to be druids and embrace nature, as opposed to the arcane-inclined Highborne and the religiously-inclined Sisterhood of Elune. He served as a commander of the forces of Kalimdor in the War of the Ancients after the death of his father. He continued serving as a teacher and protector of the elves and their forests for 10,000 years until he was killed by the demonically corrupted orcs led by Grom Hellscream.

Several years later, he was brought back into the world with the awakened Ysera through the Gates of Sothann to aid in defending Hyjal from Ragnaros and the resurgent Twilight's Hammer.[5] He now serves as a leader of the Cenarion Circle.

As the son of Elune, goddess of the moon, and the demigod Malorne, Cenarius inherited a deep connection to the world of Azeroth and its creatures. The tauren have a myth that purportedly relates the story of Cenarius's conception. Elune birthed Cenarius, but gave him up to Malorne because Cenarius was more a creature of the mortal world and could not be with her.[6] When Cenarius's birth sent a ripple through the Emerald Dream, Ysera took an immediate interest in him. Guiding him into the Dream, she taught him much of its secrets and became a foster mother of sorts to him. In fact, the affectionate understanding that she and Cenarius shared has led many of Azeroth's elder races to mistake the pair for mother and son. Malorne knew that he could not properly care for his son, but Ysera took Cenarius as her own. Cenarius grew to love the lush forests of Ysera's verdant realm. He could often be found treading its infinite dreamways, either watching over Azeroth and its creatures, or simply hoping for all that they might yet become.[2]

The demigod grew into a powerful and cunning being, the union of the heavens and the earth. He has many powers over nature, which he inherited from his father Malorne. He fathered many children. His daughters are known as the fey dryads and his sons as the wise Keepers of the Grove, or simply "keepers", including Keeper Remulos, Ordanus, and Zaetar. According to one night elf legend, the centaur were Cenarius's bastard children,[7] but they were actually descended from Cenarius's son Zaetar and Princess Theradras,[8] making Cenarius their grandfather. According to Brann Bronzebeard, the magnataur are also descended from Cenarius.[9] Cenarius claims kinship with the night elves as well, but has never said in what way.

When the night elves first developed around the Well of Eternity, their curiosity led them to meet and befriend a number of powerful entities, including Cenarius, who claimed kinship with the night elves, though he never explained in what way.[12] The demigod became fond of the night elves, and he spent a great deal of time teaching them about the natural world in Val'sharah, his home and the birthplace of night elven druidism.[13] Under his guidance, the night elves developed a strong empathy for the living forests of ancient Kalimdor and reveled in the harmonious balance of nature. Some night elves became so transformed by the teachings of the demigod that they never left his realm, choosing to remain by Cenarius' side as his defenders. These few would cease to be elves and became woodland guardians physically altered forever.[12] Over time, however, the night elves were increasingly drawn to the cosmic energies of the Well. Furthermore, the rapid growth of the night elf civilization led inevitably to the creation of new buildings and roads. Large tracts of forest vanished. Tranquil woodlands turned into sprawling cities, and great trees were warped and twisted into shapes that would better serve as night elf dwellings. The night elves were losing touch with nature.[2]

The number of night elves pursuing their studies with the demigod dwindled, and Cenarius was grieved to realize that all his work had been for naught. Reluctantly he departed night elf lands. He resolved that he would respect their choice, however much he disagreed with it. From that point forward, Cenarius retreated into the wilds of the world and avoided most sentient races until they came to doubt his very existence.

Millennia later, Malfurion Stormrage came across several legends that referenced the mysterious Cenarius. Malfurion had always had great reverence for the natural world, although the night elves as a race had long since abandoned any interest in such matters. He shared these legends with his twin brother, Illidan Stormrage, and their mutual friend, Tyrande Whisperwind. The three night elves decided that it would be an exciting adventure to search for Cenarius, though in truth they no more believed in the demigod than the rest of their people did. It wasn't long before scattered plants and animals of Azeroth brought tidings of these three night elves to Cenarius. Surprised and intrigued, Cenarius located the night elves and looked into their hearts. He saw great promise in Malfurion, a promise that made up Cenarius's mind.[2]

The laughing trio was shocked into silence when Cenarius stepped out of a shadowed thicket. He introduced himself and offered to teach them the druidic arts. They accepted eagerly and began to train in Val'sharah. Malfurion proved a quick and talented student, but his brother was clumsy and quickly grew impatient. For her part, Tyrande was already a novice in the Sisterhood of Elune and so had dedicated herself to the goddess above all others. Cenarius knew that Malfurion alone would go on to become a druid.[2] Under the tutelage of wise Cenarius, Malfurion would become the first mortal druid on Azeroth.

Malfurion made significant progress in his studies before he was assailed by a disturbing vision. He watched helplessly as the Highborne inside the palace abused the Well of Eternity's magics. The vision gave him the strong conviction that Queen Azshara and her high-ranking spellcasters would cause a catastrophe unless someone intervened. Malfurion brought his concerns to Cenarius, at the time dwelling in the sacred Moonglade,[15][16] who was greatly worried. Even so, the night elves realized what was happening too late. Demons poured out of the royal palace and began to slaughter everything in their path. The War of the Ancients had begun. As the crisis unfolded, Cenarius taught Malfurion all he could and then sought out the other demigods of Azeroth. They were unaccustomed to the idea of working together; as a result, it took much persuasion from Cenarius before they finally agreed on a course of action. They rode to the battlefront and found that the war was well underway. Quickly Cenarius assessed the situation and then led the other demigods to the leader of the night elf army, Captain Jarod Shadowsong. The astonished captain readily accepted the demigods' offer of assistance, and the tide of battle seemed to shift.[2]

During a battle in Azshara, Cenarius granted his blessing to Huln Highmountain so that his people would forever have his favor. This transformed Huln and his people's horns into the Horns of Eche'ro, moose-like antlers that would forever mark them as blessed.

Reacting to the new and powerful threat, the vast demonic army refocused its attacks on the demigods, who were soon overwhelmed. Cenarius was badly wounded and completely surrounded by the time Malorne charged up and drove back his son's attackers with a few sweeps of his massive antlers. The night elves scrambled into action, pulling the unconscious Cenarius to safety. Malorne easily held the demons off for a time. Then Archimonde came forth and engaged the giant stag in single combat, ultimately snapping Malorne's neck. Malfurion was furious and grieved; he called roots out of the ground to attack the demon lord. As the plants tightened their stranglehold on the demon's massive form, Archimonde was forced to teleport away in order to escape.[2]

Ysera was sad to learn of Malorne's death, and her dragonflight carefully helped Cenarius enter the Emerald Dream, where the green dragons ministered to his injuries. Despite his sorrow and the lingering effects of his wounds, Cenarius emerged from the Dream not long after the Great Sundering, for he could feel the land cry out for healing. To his horror, he discovered that Illidan Stormrage had created a second Well of Eternity. Jarod Shadowsong left Illidan's punishment to Malfurion, who felt it would be the height of folly to leave Illidan free to continue his reckless pursuit of power. Thus, with Cenarius's help, Malfurion sealed Illidan within a vast underground barrow prison, there to remain chained and powerless until the end of time.[2]

The Dreamweavers are powerful druids in Val'sharah who grew under Cenarius's tutelage after the Great Sundering