Kil'jaeden

Kil'jaeden (sometimes spelled as Kil'Jaeden)[8][9][10][11] [kɪlˈdʒeɪdən] (pronounced Kill-jay-den), was a powerful eredar demon lord and the second in rank of the Burning Legion. 13,000 years ago,[12] Kil'jaeden, Archimonde and Velen were the leaders of the benevolent eredar people of Argus. When the Dark Titan Sargeras arrived and offered them the answer to the most important question there was, "what is the one true underlying flaw of the universe?", the eredar, as a knowledge-seeking race, accepted, led by Kil'jaeden and Archimonde. Sargeras blessed them with unimaginable power, turning the eredar into demons who would help Sargeras get rid of that flaw, while Velen and his followers fled, renaming themselves the draenei.

While Archimonde led the Legion's armies, Kil'jaeden was charged with assimilating as many races as possible into the folds of the Burning Legion. He long sought to exact revenge on Velen and his followers for their perceived betrayal, which eventually led him to corrupt the orcs, native inhabitants of the world of Draenor which the draenei had settled upon. The orcs formed the First Horde, slaughtered the draenei, and invaded the world of Azeroth, marking the beginning of the First War. Kil'jaeden also created the Lich King and the undead Scourge as a means to weaken Azeroth's defenses in preparation for a future Legion invasion.

Since Sargeras was nowhere to be seen following the death of Medivh, Kil'jaeden had assumed the role of acting leader of the Burning Legion.[13]

Kil'jaeden is one of the two main antagonists in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne (alongside Illidan Stormrage), the main antagonist in World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, and the secondary antagonist in Legion.

Twenty-five millennia ago, the world of Argus was shaped into a paradise by the eredar race who called it home. Kil'jaeden, respected for his intelligence, a genius among a race of geniuses, quickly rose to become a leader of Argus alongside his best friend, Velen, who he loved as a brother.[14] Together they formed the Second Duumvirate.[15]

At one point, Kil'jaeden, Velen and the eredar rulers' inner circle bore witness to a grand demonstration held by the sorcerer Thal'kiel, who led an order of magi called the Wakeners. First, Thal'kiel summoned orderly rows of the old, familiar arcane constructs he and his followers were known for. Then, he started summoning a storm of infernals to destroy the constructs as a symbolic display of the "new era" he foresaw for his people thanks to the arts of demonic summoning he had recently discovered.

However, when he looked upon his colleagues' faces, Thal'kiel didn't see the approval he expected. Kil'jaeden's expression was remote and inscrutable, but Velen harshly condemned Thal'kiel's actions and forbade him from ever conjuring demons again, denouncing his "new era" as a failed experiment. Some time later, Thal'kiel resumed his experiments regardless, using cloaking magic to hide a demonic army he and his Wakeners were constructing with the purpose of installing him as dictator of Argus. The night before the planned coup, however, Thal'kiel's ambitious young apprentice, Archimonde, informed Kil'jaeden and Velen of his master's plans. To prove his loyalty to Argus' rulers, Archimonde himself led the attack on the Wakeners' secret training grounds and decapitated his former master with his own blade. Later, he would rise to rule the eredar alongside Kil'jaeden and Velen.[15]

Corruption
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
Kil'jaeden eredar flashback
Kil'jaeden during the flight from Argus.

Eredar society was shattered when their three leaders were contacted by Sargeras, who offered the eredar untold knowledge and magic at their disposal in exchange for their loyalty. Kil'jaeden and Archimonde readily accepted, though Velen curiously held back. As the eredar were preparing to receive their new powers, Kil'jaeden learned that Velen and his followers had sided with the naaru and were in the process of fleeing Argus. Enraged by this "betrayal", Kil'jaeden loosed his new powers and minions on the "Exiled Ones", or draenei in Eredun, and relentlessly pursued them across the cosmos for thousands of years.

Talgath delivered Velen's wife and son to Kil'jaeden,[16] who then renamed the boy Rakeesh, meaning "butcher", and had the Demonic Inquisition torture him into an agent of the Burning Legion.[12][17]

Sargeras molded Kil'jaeden's innate cunning and intellect and charged him with seeking out and transforming the races of the Great Dark Beyond into demons of the Burning Legion.[18] The Deceiver first enslaved the vampiric race called the dreadlords - or nathrezim - led by Tichondrius,[19] after which he also recruited the barbarous pit lords, or annihilan.[20]

The Orcish Horde on Draenei
Kiljaedendaemon
The demon Kil'jaeden as he appeared in the Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness manual.

For millennia, Kil'jaeden's scouts searched the Nether for the draenei, finding and destroying the worlds they had settled on, but they always managed to escape. Then, one day, Kil'jaeden's favored servant, Talgath, stumbled upon a world that showed signs of the draenei's magic. Though they initially assumed it was just another one of the planets the draenei briefly stopped upon,[14] further investigations quickly discovered that the draenei had actually settled there, even going so far as to give it an eredun name: Draenor, meaning "Exiles' Refuge".

On the planet there also resided a race of shamanistic beings called orcs. Intrigued by their potential, Kil'jaeden realized that they were exactly what he was looking for. He sought an agent among the orcish race to follow his will. Though Kil'jaeden found many suitable candidates none held as much potential as Gul'dan.[21]

Gul'dan was born crippled, weak and deformed, which made him a target for constant mockery and abuse ever since his childhood. He knew that he was meant for more than his clan would ever allow of him, and he hated them for it. He used the hate and bitterness he felt as a way to keep going. One day, the other clan members grew so tired of the runt's refusal to accept his place in the clan that they beat him repeatedly in an attempt to rid themselves of him once and for all. As the chieftain was about to beat him again, the elderly shaman of the clan stopped him, saying that he had tried and failed to help Gul'dan find his place in the clan. Laying a hand on Gul'dan's shoulder, the elder said, not unkindly, that there was nothing more he could do for him, but that he had always believed there was greatness within him. He then advised the runt to seek out the Throne of the Elements, for perhaps there he would find his destiny. Though at first dismissal Gul'dan would eventually follow the advice, only to be rejected by the furies who sensed the darkness and fury within his heart. It was when he was at his lowest, that Kil'jaeden spoke to Gul'dan, promising power and godhood in exchange for Gul'dan helping the Burning Legion turn the orcs as a weapon to destroy the draenei.

The Path to Corruption by Twincruiser
The path to corruption.

Gul'dan quickly agreed, for he only held disdain for his people. Kil'jaeden instructed his new servant in the ways of fel magic. The demon lord knew that these energies would physically change the orc or even draw the draenei's attention, so he took steps to hide Gul'dan new abilities. Kil'jaeden taught the orc how to mask his powers, and he ordered him to use fel magic only when absolutely necessary. Gul'dan took to the volatile power faster than expected, reveling in the destructive might his fingertips.[21]

Knowing that Gul'dan couldn't serve as the figure they needed to forge the orc clans into an army, Kil'jaeden ordered Gul'dan to ally with someone who could inspire or lead the orc race. After destroying his former clan (in order to ensure that no one knew his past) Gul'dan would join the Shadowmoon clan, which was under the rule of Ner'zhul. In time Gul'dan's would earn Ner'zhul's trust and became the elder's shamanic apprentice. Under the guise of the orcs' sacred ancestors, Kil'jaeden tricked the shamans of each clan—including their most respected leader, the elder shaman Ner'zhul—into thinking that the draenei were plotting against the orcs.[22] Soon, the clans began to launch successful skirmishes and raids against the draenei, believing it to be their ancestors' will that they be exterminated. However, plans faltered when Ner'zhul traveled to Oshu'gun, was shown the truth about his new patron, and attempted to undo his actions. Kil'jaeden, however, was already aware of Ner'zhul's actions and stripped the elderly shaman of his power, and Gul'dan would teach his fel magics to other the orcs. Eventually, as the elemental spirits refused to grant their powers to the shaman, these demonic powers would overtake the orcs.

Gul'dan also turned to Kil'jaeden for assistance in creating two deadly weapons, imploring the Burning Legion for aid since he did not want to ask the Furies for help. Kil'jaeden saw the value of having a covert assassin at the Shadow Council's command. The demon lord instructed and provided him the raw materials needed to create them.[23]

After proving the orcs' ability to fight the draenei, Mannoroth's blood was given to the orcs to drink, and they degraded into a horrible bloodlust. As both a test of his new minions and as a revenge to his wayward brethren, Kil'jaeden ordered Gul'dan to finish the slaughter of the draenei in one climactic battle at Shattrath City. The attack was a brutal massacre, with much of Shattrath being destroyed. To all appearances, Kil'jaeden's pawns had finally triumphed over the draenei.

Kil'jaeden was relatively pleased with the Horde's destruction of the draenei, as was Sargeras who viewed the Horde as the perfect army to weaken Azeroth. Sargeras ordered Kil'jaeden to cut off all communication with the horde, inspiring desperation for survival, to encourage journeying to another world.[24] Obeying his master's orders and taking it as a sign that Sargeras required him elsewhere, Kil'jaeden retreated from Draenor, abandoning the Horde[25]

Following Orgrim Doomhammer's take-over of the Horde and resulting in its victory during the First War, Kil'jaeden would reestablish contact with Gul'dan, convincing the warlock to support Doomhammer.[26] Unknown to Kil'jaeden however, Gul'dan had grown disillusioned with the eredar and plotted to acquire the power within the Tomb of Sargeras for himself. Thus his betrayal of the Horde came as a complete shock to Kil'jaeden. The enraged demon lord prepared to annihilate his servant for single-handedly dooming what should have been a momentous Legion victory when Sargeras himself ordered him to stand down. Sargeras decided that he would allow Gul'dan to come within reach of what he desired, let the foolish orc taste could have been his, and then Sargeras would rip it all away, as Gul'dan had done to the Horde's hopes of victory.[27]

Despite the fact that Horde had broken away from the Legion's control, Kil'jaeden would often boast of his corruption of the orcs and refer it as his "masterpiece."[28]

The Lich King
The defeat of the Horde during the Second War infuriated Kil'jaeden but it did not deter the demon lord. In truth, Kil'jaeden had learned an extremely valuable lesson. The Horde had failed because of internal conflict and disloyalty. The Legion's next strike against Azeroth would not suffer from the same weakness. Kil'jaeden convinced of a dark, disturbing way to raise a new puppet army that would be utterly incapable of diverging from the Legion's will. All he needed was a powerful spirit, skilled in the art of wielding magic to control it.[29]

Calling in an unpaid vendetta, the Deceiver found Ner'zhul within the Twisting Nether, and, seeking vengeance against the shaman's defiance, tortured the orc for an impossibly long time, destroying his body piece by piece until finally, nothing remained but the shaman's tortured soul.[30] Kil'jaeden offered the remnant of the soul a choice: remain in eternal pain in the eredar torture dimension, or become the ruler of an army of undeath. Ner'zhul, predictably, chose the latter and was transformed into the Lich King. Recalling Ner'zhul's previous duplicity and Gul'dan's failure, Kil'jaeden took no chances whatsoever. He refused to give the Lich King a body, instead sealing specially forged armor, along with the Lich King's soul, into the Frozen Throne. Just in case Ner'zhul wasn't daunted by immobility, he dispatched the Dreadlords to make sure he stayed on task. From his followers, he created the first liches. The demon lord promised him that if he succeeds, he will give him freedom and a new body.[31]

The Lich King was to succeed where the orcs had failed: His undead servants would wipe out any potential resistance, and raise the unfortunate fallen as undead legions and thus the Third War began. However, the Lich King, aware of the eredar's hatred for the immortal elves, betrayed the Legion by breaking the pact he had forged with Kil'jaeden which bound him to the latter's will. In informing Illidan of the Skull of Gul'dan through his pawn Arthas, he facilitated the death of one of the Legion's greatest tacticians, Tichondrius, and dealt the first blow against the Legion that led to the ultimate fall of their forces in the Battle of Mount Hyjal.

The Frozen Throne
 This section concerns content related to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos or its expansion The Frozen Throne.
BTNKiljaedin-Reforged
Kil'jaeden in Warcraft III: Reforged.

Although Kil'jaeden was infuriated at the failure and death of Archimonde,[32] he knew better than to take reckless vengeance.

He did not believe that all was lost. He was still confident about the Scourge, the dreadlords, and the Lich King. But when he reached to the Lich King, the entity refused him. Kil'jaeden realized that if the Lich King conquered Azeroth, any future demonic invasions would be nearly impossible. He sensed a new demon who could complete the task of destroying the Lich King.[33]

Kil'jaeden3
Kil'jaeden as he appeared to Illidan in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne.

He found Illidan Stormrage, and told him that, despite his part in the Legion's downfall, the Deceiver was willing to offer him a chance at power. Illidan was informed that if he destroyed the Frozen Throne, thus killing the Lich King, that Kil'jaeden would reward him with power beyond his imagination (whether or not Kil'jaeden actually intended to do so is a moot point).[34] He gave Illidan the Orb of Kil'jaeden to aid him in his task.

Illidan first gained the allegiance of the naga, who helped him first flee from Kalimdor and then later seek out the Eye of Sargeras. With it, they performed an arcane ritual to tear Northrend, the base of the undead Scourge, apart. Thus, the minions of Kil'jaeden came full circle, back to the power of the Dark Titan.

However, due to interference from Illidan's brother, Malfurion Stormrage, the Eye was destroyed before Illidan managed to destroy the Frozen Throne. Having failed Kil'jaeden, Illidan instead went on to rescue Tyrande Whisperwind from the Scourge along with his brother. Aware of Kil'jaeden's capabilities, he fled to Outland to evade capture, during which he gained the loyalty of one more former Highborne race, the blood elves. With his new servitors, Illidan eventually moved against the pit lord Magtheridon by destroying the dimensional gates Ner'zhul had opened decades before. The stratagem was meant to keep Kil'jaeden and his minions away from Outland and would have stopped Magtheridon from calling in reinforcements. Without any further demonic aid to strengthen his standing forces, Magtheridon was quick to fall before Illidan and his followers.[35]

But Kil'jaeden was no fool. Because of Draenor's former importance as the homeworld of the orcs and the refuge of the draenei (and Magtheridon himself an agent of the Legion), Kil'jaeden kept at least half an eye on the torn planet. Quickly uncovering what had happened (or perhaps watching all along), the Deceiver once again appeared in front of Illidan and commanded him to return to the icy continent to finish what he had started (citing that his new servitors showed "some promise"; while Kil'jaeden probably didn't buy Illidan's story, he knew that his best bet in destroying the traitor still lay in Illidan), and told him that if he failed again, he would face his "eternal wrath."[36] However, Illidan failed and the Lich King persists, having cheated the Deceiver by merging with Arthas Menethil.

The war in Outland
 This section concerns content related to The Burning Crusade.

After Illidan destroyed the dreadlord homeworld of Nathreza and dealt the greatest blow to the Legion in ten thousand years, the Legion was now clearly aware of the threat that Illidan posed and would learn from spies from within the Illidari that Illidan planned to launch a similar assault on Argus. He believed that Kil'jaeden attacked the forces of Azeroth, luring them to Outland to put an end to Illidan. Once within the shattered realm, the Horde and Alliance would begin striking against both the Legion and the Illidari. Kil'jaeden manipulated his enemies into fighting each other, and when they were weakened from the battle he planned to destroy them all.[37] Kil'jaeden also sent the Doomwalker to lay siege to the Black Temple.

After Varedis Felsoul was killed at the Black Temple, his demonic soul entered the Twisting Nether where he was found by Kil'jaeden. Kil'jaeden heaped endless torment upon Varedis, who resisted for a time, but it was not pain that broke his spirit. The Deceiver played upon his shock from the battle at the Black Temple. Champions had been prepared to face Varedis and known to use the  [Book of Fel Names], so who had told them of that power? Varedis knew it would not have been the Burning Legion or the Shadow Council, as they would have preferred the book to remain intact. Kil'jaeden convinced Varedis that it could only have been the Illidari, who knew of his power and betrayed him.

With the help of other eredar, Kil'jaeden conducted a dangerous, agonizing ritual, infusing a small part of his soul into Varedis's spirit. When the ritual was complete, Varedis was not a demon hunter but a demon, loyal to the Burning Legion and hungry for vengeance. Varedis found that his weapons, now the Twinblades of the Deceiver, had also been changed. The ritual had imbued them with another slice of Kil'jaeden's astonishing power.[38] Caria Felsoul willingly joined the demon lord and Kil'jaeden bestowed her the ancient Aldrachi Warblades.[39]

Fury of the Sunwell
 This section concerns content related to The Burning Crusade.

Main article: Kil'jaeden (tactics)
Chronicle3 Kil'jaeden
Kil'jaeden faces the Alliance heroes.

Some time prior to Illidan's defeat at the Black Temple, Kil'jaeden turned to one of the Betrayer's former lieutenants to be his instrument of vengeance: Kael'thas Sunstrider, Lord of the Blood Elves whom he enticed with promises of salvation for the blood elves.[40] Defeated at Tempest Keep, Kael was revived by Priestess Delrissa who healed his wounds by planting a fel crystal inside his chest. Kael'thas was then sent to Azeroth, where he infiltrated Silvermoon City, took the dark naaru M'uru, and traveled to the Isle of Quel'Danas where he planned to use the Sunwell as a gateway for Kil'jaeden to enter the world. Kil'jaeden used the Jeweled Scepter of Sargeras, which he had retrieved from Ner'zhul after Draenor's destruction, to aid Kael'thas in opening the portal.[41] Adventurers fought their way through Kael's minions and Burning Legion demons to reach the Sunwell, just in time to see Kil'jaeden begin pulling himself through... Anveena, the embodiment of the Sunwell's energies, was held in an arcane barrier, her powers being drained to feed the portal, but later in the encounter she sacrificed herself to weaken the Deceiver, who could then successfully be banished back into the Nether, leaving only his large necklace behind on the surface of the Sunwell.

Kil'jaeden as depicted on the walls of the Magisters' Terrace.
Kil'jaeden as depicted on the walls of the Magisters' Terrace.
 
Kil'jaeden at the Sunwell.
Kil'jaeden at the Sunwell.
 
Kil'jaeden in the Sunwell Plateau.
Kil'jaeden in the Sunwell Plateau.
 
Kil'jaeden's necklace, which becomes his "corpse", at the end of the fight.
Kil'jaeden's necklace, which becomes his "corpse", at the end of the fight.
Warlords of Draenor
Warlords of Draenor This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.
Kil'jaeden's plans to corrupt the orcs into a Horde that would slaughter the draenei he hated so much went awry on an alternate Draenor due to the intervention of a time-traveling Garrosh Hellscream, who prevented the drinking of the Blood of Mannoroth by warning the orcs beforehand. With Kil'jaeden's plan falling to pieces, Archimonde took control of the Legion's invasion of Draenor himself. Under Archimonde, the demons were much more forceful and out in the open than they were in the main timeline.

Though Kil'jaeden's plans failed, he continued to watch Gul'dan's actions throughout the events on Draenor.