Mannoroth

Mannoroth was the barbaric leader of the pit lords when Kil'jaeden recruited them.[5] When Archimonde was placed in command of the pit lords, he recognized Mannoroth's value as a brutal, bloodthirsty fighter and made the pit lord his second-in-command. Mannoroth helped lead the Burning Legion in assaults on countless worlds, and led the first invasion of Azeroth. His ruthlessness and vile cunning made him into one of the favored lieutenants of his masters, Archimonde and Kil'jaeden, the champions of the Burning Legion. He is known as "the Destructor" and "the Flayer".

In addition to his martial prowess, Mannoroth was a powerful spellcaster. His magical knowledge and power exceeded even the most gifted night elf sorcerers, including Xavius and Illidan.[6] Of the Highborne, only Queen Azshara proved superior.[7]

In Warlords of Draenor, he is resurrected by Gul'dan in Hellfire Citadel after having been slain by Grommash, and serves as the penultimate boss of Hellfire Citadel.

Mannoroth serves as the secondary antagonist in Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos and the supporting antagonist in Cataclysm and Warlords of Draenor.

After Xavius and the Highborne failed to sufficiently strengthen the portal for Sargeras' entrance into Azeroth, he sent Hakkar the Houndmaster to guide them. But even adding his arcane knowledge and might, they were met with limited success. Queen Azshara suggested they cut off the Well of Eternity from outside interference, save for their own use. However, they lacked the magical expertise to make it happen and Xavius once again sought help from Sargeras. Disappointed in Hakkar's failure, Sargeras decided to send one of his most trusted commanders to assist them. As Mannoroth's monstrous form emerged from the portal, a frightened Highborne nearly collapsed in shock. Mannoroth pointed a taloned finger at the careless sorcerer and incinerated him with black flames. In a thundering voice, Mannoroth stated, "There will be no more failure."

Mannoroth drew up the diagram for the shield spell and the Highborne were finally able to seal the Well's power from all but themselves, allowing them to widen and solidify the portal. In a matter of hours, hundreds of demons poured through. Mannoroth departed the palace with them to purge the unfit and crush the resistance gathering outside Zin-Azshari. He left Xavius in charge of maintaining the shield and strengthening the portal.

The night elf forces opposing the invasion had been weakened from being cut off from the Well and sent Malfurion to destroy the shield spell. He managed to sneak into the palace using his dream form and killed Xavius before shutting down both the shield array and the portal. Mannoroth immediately felt the loss as Sargeras' presence disappeared with the portal. The Moon Guard's connection with the Well restored, they turned the tide against the Legion's forces and pushed them back to Zin-Azshari.[8]

Having failed his master for the first time and fearing punishment, Mannoroth worked quickly with the Highborne to rebuild the portal. This time, Sargeras sent Archimonde and Xavius—reborn as a satyr—to assist the invasion. While the majority of the Legion's forces went out to combat Azeroth's defenders and capture Malfurion, Mannoroth was left to oversee the portal.[9]

At some point, he watched Illidan who offered Sargeras his help. The Dark Titan burned his eyes. Archimonde used his magic to strengthen the magical barriers around the palace so that it was impossible to launch an assault on the demons' stronghold. Mannoroth single-handedly slaughtered entire regiments of Kaldorei defenders and sowed chaos by unleashing squads of doomguard across the land. During the war, Mannoroth clashed with the demigod Cenarius himself.[10][11]

Near the end of the war, a band of night elves led by Illidan assaulted Mannoroth and Captain Varo'then on the shores of the Well. Unknown to either, this band, besides Illidan, consisted of adventurers from the far future.

Drawing upon the power of Kalimdor from every part of nature, Malfurion cast an incredible gale across the Well of Eternity. The night elf and demon sorcerers stabilizing the portal were swept out across the black waters. Using his incredible strength and bulk to resist the gale, Mannoroth drew upon the energy of the collapsing spellwork to create a fiery shield to protect himself. He believed himself successful and began laughing hard from his sense of superiority as 'the Flayer', 'the Destructor', and one of Sargeras' chosen. But to his dismay, it was sucked away by the strong wind. Mannoroth was last seen being cast out over the Well roaring in frustration.