Nefarian was the eldest son of Deathwing[3][7] and his Prime Consort Sintharia. Like his father and his younger[3] twin[4] sister Onyxia, he had a human guise, appearing as Victor Nefarius, Lord of Blackrock. Holding the Blackrock clan and various clans of ogres under his control, Nefarian ruled from his lair at the top of Blackrock Spire until he was defeated by champions of Azeroth. Upon the return of his father and the Cataclysm that resulted, Nefarian was brought back to life as a rotted abomination, and descended further into Blackrock Mountain, where he set up a laboratory full of new (and mostly failed) experiments - including reanimating his sister Onyxia. Ultimately, he was destroyed once again by Azeroth's champions.

Nefarian serves as one of the two secondary antagonists (alongside his sister Onyxia) in classic World of Warcraft and returns as one of the supporting antagonists in Cataclysm.

Shortly before his departure for Draenor with the Horde of Draenor, Deathwing commanded Onyxia and Nefarian to secure the Blackrock orcs of Blackrock Spire as their new force. His children agreed to do so.[8]

After Draenor's destruction, Deathwing returned as Daval Prestor to Lordaeron, sowing chaos. He secretly called on Nefarian to accompany him, also disguised as a human noble. Together, they spread distrust among Alliance's nations.[9] After the Battle of Grim Batol, Nefarian chose to work from shadows and contacted the Dark Horde in Blackrock Mountain, manipulating the orcs into allowing the black dragonflight to use the location as their new base. The son of Deathwing established a hidden laboratory there, hoping to achieve his father's dream of rebuilding the black dragonflight. To that end, he conducted grotesque experiments with the blood of different dragonflights, much of which he harvested from living dragons.[10]

With the aid of his sister Onyxia—who served as one of his mightiest supporters and was seen traveling to and from Blackrock on occasion[3]—and the orchestrations of their human personas, Nefarian worked toward replenishing the black dragonflight. Nefarian was obsessed with following in his father's footsteps by achieving what his father could not. He has been experimenting with the blood of all of the various dragonflights to create a chromatic dragonflight[11] of unstoppable warriors and unspeakable hybrids of both red and black dragons.[12]

Nefarian and his draconic minions took control of the upper Spire and made war on the dwarves' holdings in the mountain's volcanic depths. Realizing that the dwarves were led by the mighty fire elemental, Ragnaros - Nefarian vowed to crush his enemies and claim the whole of Blackrock Mountain for himself.[13] To this end, he made efforts to bolster his forces like his father Deathwing in ages past.[14]

Intent on seizing the entire region for his own, he has struck up an alliance with Dal'rend Blackhand, though he only used him and his Dark Horde to battle against his enemies for control of the mountain.[15] Nefarian's mad bid for dominance has even attracted the ire of the red dragonflight — in the form of the red dragon Vaelastrasz — which has always been the Black flight's greatest foe. Though Nefarian's intentions are known, the methods he is using to achieve them remain a mystery.[14] The Blackwing Cabal served directly under him in his lair.

Thanks to the effort of Moira Thaurissan, word was spread about Nefarian and the Dark Horde, and the Horde in Orgrimmar was in an uproar. As such, Horde heroes traveled to Blackrock Mountain to deal with their enemies.[16]

Within the mountains of Blackrock, Nefarian worked tirelessly to keep his kin alive and create a new flight. Rend Blackhand was the first to use a Chromatic being known as Gyth. Upon the arrival of the adventurers in the arena of Upper Blackrock, Nefarian implored his new experiments alongside Rend's orcs to kill them. When that plan fails, he orders Rend to deal with the heroes personally with Gyth at his side. After Rend and Gyth fell before the might of the Horde adventurers, Nefarian promised that the next time they meet would be the last.[17]

In the Blackwing Lair, Nefarian enslaved the red dragon Vaelastrasz[18] and corrupted him, commanding him to kill the heroes of Azeroth.[19] Vaelastrasz once held the red scepter shard, as part of the the Scepter of the Shifting Sands, but Nefarian has stolen it and will destroy it if he is not defeated soon enough.[20]

Horde champions continued to fight against Nefarian's twisted creations before confronting Nefarian in his lair, ultimately defeating him. The Horde champions then took his head as proof of their victory and returned to Orgrimmar.[16] The head was put on a pike by Varok Saurfang himself.

After his death in Blackwing Lair, the Twilight Hammer cultists recovered Nefarian's corpse and reanimated it with Void magics. The dragon retained a sliver of his former personality, but he was now an obedient servant of the Twilight's Hammer. It was his knowledge of how to craft monsters that the cult wanted from him. Thus, Nefarian returned to his own experiments and forged a new generation of chromatic dragons.[1]

He was then charged by Deathwing to continue his insidious endeavors within Blackwing Descent.[25] Dwelling on the lessons learned from his defeat in Blackwing Lair, he has burrowed deeper into the heart of Blackrock Mountain and rebuilt his sanctuary. The Vault of the Shadowflame, a deep pit of cascading magma, is the heart of Blackwing Descent, and the location of horrific new experiments in undeath and magical augmentation, including a triumph dear to even Nefarian's cold, wrathful heart.[26] He had continued his experiments along with his minion Maloriak, a human named Malory who he had captured, which yielded results such as Chimaeron and Atramedes. When Nefarian arrived in Blackwing Descent, he repurposed the Omnotron Defense System to annihilate anyone intruding on his laboratories. Nefarian largely considered Magmaw a worrisome pest, but has grown fond of feeding the beast his failed experiments and servants.

Nefarian also succeeded in the reanimation of his sister, Onyxia, but ultimately he was slain yet again by adventurers of the Alliance and Horde in Blackwing Descent.[