Neptulon the Tidehunter is the Elemental Lord of water. Much like the other three, in past ages, he battled against the Titans as a servant of the Old Gods. However, he did not ally himself with Deathwing after the Cataclysm, and as a result, the naga and faceless ones, servants of the Old Gods, sought to capture him and the Abyssal Maw. Neptulon would later break free of his captor, Ozumat, and return to the Abyssal Maw. Since the Cataclysm, Neptulon has rallied his water elementals to defend Azeroth on several occasions. The Farseer of the Earthen Ring convinced the Elemental Lord to pledge his forces to battle the Burning Legion during their third invasion. He also battled Queen Azshara's forces during the Fourth War.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Azeroth was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four Elemental Lords, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Neptulon the Tidehunter was the wisest of the lords, careful not to fall to Al'Akir's schemes or waste his minions on fruitless attacks against Therazane. As the other lords sent their armies to clash against one other across the world, the Tidehunter's forces would divide and conquer the enemy forces in brilliant routs before crushing them beneath colossal tidal waves.[4]

When the entities known as the Old Gods arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the Elemental Lords saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Azeroth's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Neptulon joined forces with Therazane; while the Stonemother raised enormous rock walls to corral the forces of the Old Gods and shatter their citadels, the Tidehunter and his minions would sweep in and crush the n'raqi and aqir with tidal waves. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[4]

When the titan-forged arrived on Azeroth to battle the Black Empire, the Old Gods sent their enslaved Elemental Lord lieutenants to face them. Neptulon and his servants rushed to the aid of the other lords, but were waylaid by Loken and Mimiron, who managed to outmaneuver the Tidehunter's forces at every turn. Ultimately, Loken used his arcane magic to freeze and shatter the water elementals while Mimiron created enchanted bonds to imprison the Tidehunter. Neptulon and his water elementals were thereafter sucked into the depths of the Abyssal Maw, a region of the Elemental Plane.