Ragnaros the Firelord was the incredibly powerful Elemental Lord of Fire. After being summoned to Azeroth by Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan, he took control of Blackrock Mountain and ruled there for more than two hundred years over his minions from deep inside its fiery core. Banished back to the Firelands, he aligned himself with Deathwing and Al'Akir in the effort to bring about the Hour of Twilight. Ragnaros laid siege to the sacred Mount Hyjal in an attempt to incinerate the World Tree Nordrassil, unleashing his most powerful minions in the process. Despite the incredible destructive forces at his disposal, the Cenarion Circle aided by mortal champions of Azeroth were able to lay siege to the Firelord's domain, where they bested all of the challenges he laid before them and eventually destroyed him within his own fortress. Years after his death, he was replaced as Firelord by Smolderon. Ragnaros was known to be seconded by a Majordomo.

Ragnaros serves as a major antagonist in classic World of Warcraft and the secondary antagonist in Cataclysm.

Ancient history

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Azeroth was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four Elemental Lords, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Ragnaros the Firelord employed brute force to destroy his enemies and longed for nothing more than to boil the seas and choke the skies with ember and ash, and wherever he went, volcanoes erupted, spewing forth rivers of fire. The other three Elemental Lords came to foster a deep hatred for the Firelord for his devastating and brazen assaults.[8]

When the entities known as the Old Gods arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the Elemental Lords saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Azeroth's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Ragnaros' fiery servants joined with Al'Akir the Windlord's tempests, creating blistering firestorms and cyclones of flame that reduced the Old Gods' citadels to ash. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[8]

When the titan-forged arrived on Azeroth to battle the Black Empire, the Old Gods sent their enslaved Elemental Lord lieutenants to face them. Ragnaros battled for weeks against Tyr and Odyn, yet the keepers' metallic forms kept them safe from the Firelord's flames. Eventually, the two keepers managed to push Ragnaros back into his volcanic lair in the east, where he was most powerful. Ragnaros waited for his enemies to come to him and called fire from the sky to waylay Tyr and Odyn. Smoke descended on the land, however, Tyr's great hammer shone in the darkness. Its erratic movements confused the Firelord and gradually let his guard down, believing his opponents were too cowardly to face him in battle. However, it was exactly what the keepers had been waiting for. Tyr pierced through the smoke and scored a blow against Ragnaros with his hammer. Odyn then flanked the staggered Firelord, and the two keepers overwhelmed their foe[9] and defeated him. The Firelord and his minions were thereafter banished to a smoldering corner of the Elemental Plane known as the Firelands.[8]

It was then that, at the core of this world, the brothers turned on each other. For five millennia, a battle was fought. It was during the Elemental Sundering that Ragnaros attacked Thunderaan, Prince of Air. Thunderaan was utterly defeated and the Firelord feasted upon his essence but was unable to consume him entirely. Ragnaros divided what remained between his servants, Baron Geddon and Garr.[10]

In the center of a vast sky of fire in the Elemental Plane stands Sulfuron Keep, the home of Ragnaros. Until comparatively recently, he ruled his burning land with a molten iron fist.

War of the Three Hammers

Around two hundred and fifty years ago the ambitious and ruthless Dark Iron clan reinitiated the War of the Three Hammers against their dwarven brethren, the Bronzebeard clan and Wildhammer clan, still bitter over losing Ironforge. The Dark Irons launched a two-pronged assault: Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan against Ironforge and his sorceress wife, Modgud, against the Wildhammers' capital city of Grim Batol, in order to prevent one clan from coming to the aid of the other.

Things did not go the way they hoped it would. Madoran Bronzebeard ultimately led his clan to a decisive victory over Thaurissan's army, who then fled to Thaurissan, the Dark Iron capital. The Bronzebeards pursued.

Modgud used her powers, eventually broke through Grim Batol's gates and laid siege to the fortress itself. The siege was broken and the Dark Irons routed when Thane Khardros Wildhammer waded through the battle and killed Modgud. Pursued by the Wildhammers, most of her forces also fled back to their city, only to meet Ironforge forces sent to help Grim Batol. Trapped between the two armies, Modgud's forces were annihilated.

The Wildhammer and Bronzebeard armies united to destroy the treacherous Dark Irons once and for all and marched for Thaurissan. Thaurissan, seeking to summon a supernatural minion that would turn the tide of the war back to his favor called upon the ancient powers sleeping beneath the world with seven of his most powerful Dark Iron allies in the area known as the Molten Core.[11] To Thaurissan's surprise, and ultimately his doom, the creature that emerged was more terrible than any nightmare he could have imagined.

Ragnaros in WoW
Ragnaros in his lair in the Molten Core.

Now, freed by Thaurissan's call, Ragnaros erupted into being once again. Ragnaros' apocalyptic rebirth into Azeroth shattered the Redridge Mountains and created a raging volcano at the center of the devastation. The volcano, known as Blackrock Mountain, was bordered by what is now known as the Searing Gorge, to the north, and the Burning Steppes, to the south. Though Thaurissan and the seven were killed by the forces he had unleashed, his surviving brethren were ultimately enslaved by Ragnaros and his elementals. Many Dark Iron dwarves remain within the lower areas of the mountain, especially Blackrock Depths, toiling away at the behest of Ragnaros and the Firelord's lieutenants. They worship Ragnaros.

Witnessing the horrific devastation and the fires spreading across the southern mountains, the Bronzebeards' King Madoran and Wildhammers' Thane Khardros halted their armies and hastily turned back towards their kingdoms, unwilling to face the awesome wrath of Ragnaros.

The Firelord was incapable of straying far from the Molten Core,[11] so after Ragnaros and his minions settled there, the lava elemental Lord Roccor ended up angering the Firelord and was expelled from the core and forced to guard Blackrock Depths in isolation. Little did Ragnaros know that this was Roccor's plan all along; loathing the scheming and backstabbing of his fellow fire elementals, the mighty being came up with the risky gambit just to avoid serving alongside them.[12]

After the Dark Irons forged their new capital, Shadowforge City, the dwarves were forced to serve Ragnaros and his lieutenants. Years later, Emperor Dagran Thaurissan ruled the Dark Irons on behalf of the Firelord. However, while Thaurissan delighted in the power that Ragnaros had bestowed upon him, he bristled at his servitude to the Firelord. When Ragnaros ordered Thaurissan to prepare the Dark Irons for a new war, the emperor was overjoyed. He had long dreamed of conquering the other dwarf clans, not only to rule over them but also to wield their combined power to break free of the Firelord's control.