Sargeras (pronounced "SAHR-gair-ahs")[5] is a titan and the creator and leader of the Burning Legion. He was once the champion of the Pantheon, chosen to defend the worlds the titans had ordered. However, while he once served as a guardian and protector, he later set out to destroy all world-souls and life in the universe, and undo what the titans had strived for ages to achieve.[6]

His actions and their effects essentially made him one of the main antagonists — or as Chris Metzen called him, "the big, mega bad guy" —[7] of the Warcraft franchise, and he served as the main antagonist of Legion.

Champion of the Pantheon

Like all titans, Sargeras was born from a world-soul maturing within a planet in the Great Dark Beyond. He was the mightiest warrior of the titan Pantheon and originally possessed the title "The Defender" and was the "noblest of all".[6] Like the rest of his kind, he was altruistic and just, unable to conceive of pure evil.[8] When the chaotic demons, spawn of the Twisting Nether, began to threaten the Pantheon's work of bringing order to worlds in the Great Dark, Sargeras was sent to battle them. Sargeras continued defeating the disorganized and incompetent demons with ease, but he also soon discovered that some demons had begun wielding the dark energies of the Void. The Defender also suspected the existence of malevolent beings far more powerful than mere demons who sought to influence the physical universe hidden behind the veil of the Void. The presence of these beings troubled Sargeras, but he nonetheless continued his work.[9]

To his dismay, Sargeras soon discovered that the demons he had defeated simply returned to the Twisting Nether to be reborn in new bodies and continue to torment the worlds of the Great Dark. The Pantheon grew concerned about this development and the increase of demonic activity, and so sent the inexperienced titan Aggramar to aid Sargeras in battle. Aggramar proved a quick study and soon earned Sargeras' admiration, and became the warrior's trusted lieutenant. The two fought shoulder to shoulder against the endless demons of the Nether. This allowed Sargeras to more closely study the nature of the Nether, and by learning how to manipulate the chaotic realm's magical energies, he created a prison world known as Mardum to contain the demons he had defeated (though in Mardum, the demons were not idle; a nathrezim named Ulthalesh, in particular, ruled the pocket dimension with an iron fist, plotting his vengeance[10]). Demonic invasions became increasingly rare, and together, the two titans soon brought peace to the cosmos.[9]

At some point, Sargeras had started using the enslaved demonic doomguard as hounds to police the use of arcane magics. Sacrificial magic was considered the greatest violation of life and the doomguard had been attuned to instantly punish those who delved into such sorcery.