Vashj (known in life as Lady Vashj and in death as Baroness Vashj; pronounced /vɒʒ/ — somewhere between Vash and Vosh) has, at various points in her existence, been a Highborne servant of Queen Azshara, one of the first of the serpentine naga, a lieutenant of Illidan Stormrage, and a Necrolord baroness of the House of Eyes.

Born the daughter of Lestharia Vashj, ruler of the city of Vashj'ir, Vashj was once the foremost of Queen Azshara's Highborne handmaidens. She was transformed into one of the monstrous naga when Azshara and her followers were sent to the bottom of the sea during the Great Sundering.

Ten thousand years later, Vashj answered Illidan Stormrage's call and followed him first to Lordaeron, where she met up with Kael'thas Sunstrider and rallied his blood elves to Illidan's cause, and then to Outland when Illidan deposed Magtheridon as lord of the shattered world. As the leader of Illidan's naga, Vashj and her followers set up operations in the Coilfang Reservoir in Zangarmarsh, where the naga began to pump water from the region's lakes into their underground lair. During the invasion of Outland, adventurers invaded the Serpentshrine Cavern where Vashj made her lair and slew the Coilfang matron.

After her death, Vashj's soul was sent to Maldraxxus—the warlike realm of the Necrolords in the Shadowlands—where she became a baroness serving under Margrave Akarek in the House of Eyes, a faction of spymasters and assassins. The house was ultimately betrayed and destroyed by the House of Rituals, but Vashj remained a leader of the surviving Eyes and eventually joined forces with the House of the Chosen in the war against the traitorous Necrolords.

Lady Vashj was born in the Highborne city of Vashj'ir[2] as the daughter of Matron Lestharia Vashj, the city's beloved ruler. At some point, Vashj came to the night elf capital of Zin-Azshari and became one of Queen Azshara's personal handmaidens. Vashj considered it her birthright to serve Azshara. She copied the queen's hairstyle and clothing as much as possible. When the queen made Vashj her foremost handmaiden, remaining in the queen's favor became Vashj's sole concern.[3] She was described as "quite beautiful, with exotic, feline eyes" although she was still not as beautiful as Azshara herself.