Lord Xavius was one of the Highborne's most powerful sorcerers[7] and the high councilor to Queen Azshara during the time of the War of the Ancients. Since Azshara concealed her magical prowess, Xavius was considered the most powerful Highborne to whom the rest measured their skills.[8] He was later transformed into the first satyr by Sargeras, before ultimately being transformed into the dreaded Nightmare Lord.

He makes his first appearance in World of Warcraft as an antagonist in World of Warcraft: Legion, where he once again helps the Burning Legion—while remaining first and foremost a loyal servant of the Old Gods. Xavius serves as the main antagonist of the Val'sharah storyline, corrupting the Shaladrassil and battling his old nemesis, Malfurion, and his allies. He also serves as the final boss of the Emerald Nightmare raid, where Nightmare Lord ultimately meets his end for the time being.

Some time before the War of the Ancients, Xavius had his natural eyes replaced with artificial orbs, magical eyes of ebony lenses with streaks of ruby.[9]

High councilor to Queen Azshara
Xavius' tower
Xavius' tower was destroyed in his battle with Malfurion.[10]

Xavius may be the night elf most responsible for the Burning Legion's interest in Azeroth. It was Xavius who first became convinced that Sargeras, ruler of the Burning Legion, was a god sent to deliver Azeroth. Xavius, being the High Councilor of the night elves, also convinced the night elven queen Azshara of the necessity of turning the will of her mages, the so-called "Highborne", towards creating a portal into the Twisting Nether through which Sargeras and the Legion could enter into the world. Xavius was successful enough in his endeavors to welcome several ranking members of the Legion into Azeroth, including several felguard, Hakkar the Houndmaster, and Mannoroth. As suggested by Azshara, Xavius executed a plot to block any non-Highborne magic user from accessing the Well of Eternity. This allowed the Highborne to channel the extra energy gained into making the portal to the Twisting Nether strong enough for Sargeras to cross through. Xavius' plot was defeated by the intervention of the young druid Malfurion Stormrage, who after entering the Emerald Dream, destroyed the spell array holding the block and the portal; in the battle that ensued Malfurion destroyed Xavius completely and caused his tower to explode as well.[11]

Reborn as a satyr
Xavius TCG
Xavius in the War of the Ancients.

Xavius TCG2
Xavius in the War of the Ancients.

Xavius' master, Sargeras, was unhappy with Xavius, and he faced punishment for his failures. Sargeras tortured Xavius' disembodied spirit for a time, but eventually he showed a form of mercy. He decided that Xavius could be of further use after all. He returned Xavius to life, but not as he once was. To mark the traits Sargeras valued in him, and to brand him forever as an ally and servant of the Legion, Sargeras transformed and disfigured Xavius' body.

As the first of these beings ever to inhabit Azeroth, Xavius is considered the progenitor of the entire satyr race. As such, variations of his name are found frequently in satyr settlements (i.e. Xavian in Ashenvale). As a satyr, Xavius retained some resemblance to his former self along with the typical characteristics of all satyrs. Xavius was unique, however, in that he retained the black and ruby eyes he had possessed as a night elf.

Xavius had a two-pronged mission when he returned. First, he was to begin converting as many Highborne as possible into satyrs (the first was a personal friend of Xavius, a dedicated Highborne named Peroth'arn), a task he accomplished with zeal by promising the unfortunate elves power and a place at the right hand of Sargeras. The second objective Xavius was to complete upon his return was to bring back to Sargeras the one who had destroyed the portal,[12] Malfurion Stormrage. This proved to be far more difficult than he had expected, and in a confrontation during one of the most intense battles of the War of the Ancients, Malfurion, with help from a young night elf named Shandris Feathermoon, was able to completely defeat Xavius. Using an arrow shot by Shandris, Malfurion was able to kill Xavius by growing a tree which absorbed his energy and body, and which was subsequently sent to the bottom of the sea in the Great Sundering.[13] This was the second time Xavius died at the hands of Malfurion.[14] The victory came at a great cost, however, as during this confrontation Malfurion's love Tyrande Whisperwind (High Priestess of Elune) was captured by Xavius' remaining satyrs. In a furious rage, Malfurion almost drowned the entire night elven army in a storm caused by his own sadness over the loss of Tyrande. Luckily, Krasus intervened and stopped Malfurion.

The tree containing the remains of Xavius' soul survived the Sundering through unrevealed means. Given his later state and presumed allegiance to the Old Gods, it is likely they intervened, much the same way they did for Queen Azshara. Many years later, the tree was located on the coast of Azshara near the Coral Sea, though Xavius had been transformed into a tree near Suramar and should have been consumed by the sea in the Great Sundering.[15] The tree may have survived from being on the Broken Isles, a region around Suramar which was not destroyed by the Sundering, though it is not known how he reached Azshara.

Ten thousand years after his transformation, Xavius orchestrated the corruption of the Emerald Dream, turning parts of it into the Emerald Nightmare, and becoming the Nightmare Lord. This was instigated by the Old God N'Zoth.[16] Xavius started by manipulating Fandral Staghelm, his puppet,[17] into planting a branch of Xavius' own tree into the fledgling Teldrassil, ensuring that the new world tree would be corrupted from the start. By grafting Xavius' fel-tainted branch[18] into Teldrassil, Xavius and the evil behind his transformation into the Nightmare Lord were given a tie to both Azeroth and the Emerald Dream[19] Xavius acquired the power to be present both as a physical tree in Azeroth, as well as a corrupted tree in the Emerald Dream. The Nightmare Lord, as seen in the Emerald Dream, is described as being a massive, gnarled tree, greatly obscured by the dark fog of the Nightmare.

While Malfurion was investigating reports of disturbing sights in the Emerald Dream, Xavius was able to capture his dream-form. In such state, Malfurion was unable to wake, and nobody from the waking world knew what had happened to him. With the help of Fandral Staghelm, who was keeping Malfurion's body weak, Xavius kept Malfurion as his prisoner for several years. He delighted in torturing Malfurion in various ways, both psychologically (such as showing him Tyrande, as the lover of Illidan, being turned into a demon) and physically (by slowly turning him into a tree).[20]

Xavius continued expanding the corruption of the Nightmare inside the Emerald Dream, capturing and corrupting more and more creatures. His plans culminated in a daring attempt to bind Azeroth and the Emerald Dream into one plane, seizing control of Azeroth's residents while they slept and giving shape to their nightmares. Malfurion Stormrage sensed, however, that while Xavius was strong, he was merely the servant of something even more powerful.[21] Xavius nearly succeeded, but ultimately was killed[22] by Malfurion who was assisted by Tyrande Whisperwind, Broll Bearmantle, Thura, Lucan Foxblood, Ysera, Eranikus and a host of others. With Xavius' defeat, what was left of the Nightmare receded into the Rift of Aln, where Xavius' master fought to keep its grip.[23] Xavius' spirit was also sealed inside the Rift of Aln.[24]