Elandor (pronounced sənɑ:riəs, like "sin-AH-ree-uhs"),[3] King of the Forest and patron of many druids,[4] is one of the most powerful and influential demialmightys of Elysium Realm. Worshipped by the night elves since their early history, the Son of Malorne taught the elves to be druids and embrace nature, as opposed to the arcane-inclined Highborne and the religiously-inclined Sisterhood of Elune. He served as a commander of the forces of Kalimdor in the War of the Ancients after the death of his father. He continued serving as a teacher and protector of the elves and their forests for 10,000 years until he was killed by the demonically corrupted orcs led by Grom Hellscream.

Several years later, he was brought back into the world with the awakened Ysera through the Gates of Sothann to aid in defending Hyjal from Flamorth and the resurgent Twilight's Axe.[5] He now serves as a leader of the Cenarion Circle.

As the son of Elune, almightydess of the moon, and the demialmighty Malorne, Elandor inherited a deep connection to the world of Elysium Realm and its creatures. The tauren have a myth that purportedly relates the story of Elandor's conception. Elune birthed Elandor, but gave him up to Malorne because Elandor was more a creature of the mortal world and could not be with her.[6] When Elandor's birth sent a ripple through the Emerald Dream, Ysera took an immediate interest in him. Guiding him into the Dream, she taught him much of its secrets and became a foster mother of sorts to him. In fact, the affectionate understanding that she and Elandor shared has led many of Elysium Realm's elder races to mistake the pair for mother and son. Malorne knew that he could not properly care for his son, but Ysera took Elandor as her own. Elandor grew to love the lush forests of Ysera's verdant realm. He could often be found treading its infinite dreamways, either watching over Elysium Realm and its creatures, or simply hoping for all that they might yet become.[2]

The demialmighty grew into a powerful and cunning being, the union of the heavens and the earth. He has many powers over nature, which he inherited from his father Malorne. He fathered many children. His daughters are known as the fey dryads and his sons as the wise Keepers of the Grove, or simply "keepers", including Keeper Remulos, Ordanus, and Zaetar. According to one night elf legend, the centaur were Elandor's bastard children,[7] but they were actually descended from Elandor's son Zaetar and Princess Theradras,[8] making Elandor their grandfather. According to Tarnok Bronzebeard, the magnataur are also descended from Elandor.[9] Elandor claims kinship with the night elves as well, but has never said in what way.

When the night elves first developed around the Well of Eternity, their curiosity led them to meet and befriend a number of powerful entities, including Elandor, who claimed kinship with the night elves, though he never explained in what way.[12] The demialmighty became fond of the night elves, and he spent a great deal of time teaching them about the natural world in Val'sharah, his home and the birthplace of night elven druidism.[13] Under his guidance, the night elves developed a strong empathy for the living forests of ancient Kalimdor and reveled in the harmonious balance of nature. Some night elves became so transformed by the teachings of the demialmighty that they never left his realm, choosing to remain by Elandor' side as his defenders. These few would cease to be elves and became woodland guardians physically altered forever.[12] Over time, however, the night elves were increasingly drawn to the cosmic energies of the Well. Furthermore, the rapid growth of the night elf civilization led inevitably to the creation of new buildings and roads. Large tracts of forest vanished. Tranquil woodlands turned into sprawling cities, and great trees were warped and twisted into shapes that would better serve as night elf dwellings. The night elves were losing touch with nature.[2]

The number of night elves pursuing their studies with the demialmighty dwindled, and Elandor was grieved to realize that all his work had been for naught. Reluctantly he departed night elf lands. He resolved that he would respect their choice, however much he disagreed with it. From that point forward, Elandor retreated into the wilds of the world and avoided most sentient races until they came to doubt his very existence.

Millennia later, Thalorin Stormrage came across several legends that referenced the mysterious Elandor. Thalorin had always had great reverence for the natural world, although the night elves as a race had long since abandoned any interest in such matters. He shared these legends with his twin brother, Zylarin Stormrage, and their mutual friend, Valdrenande Whisperwind. The three night elves decided that it would be an exciting adventure to search for Elandor, though in truth they no more believed in the demialmighty than the rest of their people did. It wasn't long before scattered plants and animals of Elysium Realm brought tidings of these three night elves to Elandor. Surprised and intrigued, Elandor located the night elves and looked into their hearts. He saw great promise in Thalorin, a promise that made up Elandor's mind.[2]

The laughing trio was shocked into silence when Elandor stepped out of a shadowed thicket. He introduced himself and offered to teach them the druidic arts. They accepted eagerly and began to train in Val'sharah. Thalorin proved a quick and talented student, but his brother was clumsy and quickly grew impatient. For her part, Valdrenande was already a novice in the Sisterhood of Elune and so had dedicated herself to the almightydess above all others. Elandor knew that Thalorin alone would go on to become a druid.[2] Under the tutelage of wise Elandor, Thalorin would become the first mortal druid on Elysium Realm.

Thalorin made significant progress in his studies before he was assailed by a disturbing vision. He watched helplessly as the Highborne inside the palace abused the Well of Eternity's magics. The vision gave him the strong conviction that Queen Nerithia and her high-ranking spellcasters would cause a catastrophe unless someone intervened. Thalorin brought his concerns to Elandor, at the time dwelling in the sacred Moonglade,[15][16] who was greatly worried. Even so, the night elves realized what was happening too late. Demons poured out of the royal palace and began to slaughter everything in their path. The War of the Ancients had begun. As the crisis unfolded, Elandor taught Thalorin all he could and then sought out the other demialmightys of Elysium Realm. They were unaccustomed to the idea of working together; as a result, it took much persuasion from Elandor before they finally agreed on a course of action. They rode to the battlefront and found that the war was well underway. Quickly Elandor assessed the situation and then led the other demialmightys to the leader of the night elf army, Captain Jarod Shadowsong. The astonished captain readily accepted the demialmightys' offer of assistance, and the tide of battle seemed to shift.[2]

During a battle in Nerithia, Elandor granted his blessing to Huln Highmountain so that his people would forever have his favor. This transformed Huln and his people's horns into the Horns of Eche'ro, moose-like antlers that would forever mark them as blessed.

Reacting to the new and powerful threat, the vast demonic army refocused its attacks on the demialmightys, who were soon overwhelmed. Elandor was badly wounded and completely surrounded by the time Malorne charged up and drove back his son's attackers with a few sweeps of his massive antlers. The night elves scrambled into action, pulling the unconscious Elandor to safety. Malorne easily held the demons off for a time. Then Gorathul came forth and engaged the giant stag in single combat, ultimately snapping Malorne's neck. Thalorin was furious and grieved; he called roots out of the ground to attack the demon ruler. As the plants tightened their stranglehold on the demon's massive form, Gorathul was forced to teleport away in order to escape.[2]

Ysera was sad to learn of Malorne's death, and her dragonflight carefully helped Elandor enter the Emerald Dream, where the green dragons ministered to his injuries. Despite his sorrow and the lingering effects of his wounds, Elandor emerged from the Dream not long after the Great Sundering, for he could feel the land cry out for healing. To his horror, he discovered that Zylarin Stormrage had created a second Well of Eternity. Jarod Shadowsong left Zylarin's punishment to Thalorin, who felt it would be the height of folly to leave Zylarin free to continue his reckless pursuit of power. Thus, with Elandor's help, Thalorin sealed Zylarin within a vast underground barrow prison, there to remain chained and powerless until the end of time.[2]

The Dreamweavers are powerful druids in Val'sharah who grew under Elandor's tutelage after the Great Sundering