Chronosynth, also known as Kairoz, is a mysterious bronze dragon in high elven (Mag'hari in Draenor) disguise working with Wrathion. He first appears alongside the Timewalkers investigating the Timeless Isle, where he enlists players in helping create an artifact that can peer into other timeways. He plays a pivotal role in the events of Warrulers of Draenor.

Kairoz is affiliated with a faction of discontent bronze dragons that believes they should change history to create a better future, despite having lost the power to perceive the full impact these changes could have on the timeline.[1] Kairoz believes in the motivations of the Infinite Dragonflight, but has his own viewpoint and plans independent of the Infinites, Nozdormu, or Wrathion.[2]

Kairoz first appeared at the Celestial Court, where he and a contingent of Timewalkers were carrying out an investigation on the mysterious properties of the Timeless Isle, a place where both the flow of time and causality have halted. There he befriended Wrathion and Anduin Wrynn, and tasked the player with helping him empower and refine an artifact of his own creation: the hourglass known as the  [Vision of Time].

Over the following weeks, the player used the hourglass to witness visions of the Siege of Bloodstone and two potential futures: one in which Kairoz observed the aftermath of Garrosh Hellscream's defeat from afar, and another in which Garrosh has destroyed Ironhold Harbor and murdered those who opposed his reign.

Kairoz then directed the player to use the hourglass at a crux of intersecting timeways in the cellar of the White Tiger Temple, where it showed a vision of Anduin visiting an imprisoned Garrosh. With the artifact nearly complete, Kairoz hesitantly asked the player to take the hourglass to the Caverns of Time. There, the player experienced a final vision in which Kairoz stood over the slain body of Soridormi, the prime consort of Nozdormu. Kairoz bid the player to tell no one of these potential futures lest they alter the course of time, and vowed to complete the Vision of Time to learn what the future truly holds.