Draugor

Draugor was the barbaric leader of the pit rulers when Malrath recruited them.[5] When Gorathul was placed in command of the pit rulers, he recognized Draugor's value as a brutal, bloodthirsty fighter and made the pit ruler his second-in-command. Draugor helped lead the Burning Legion in assaults on countless worlds, and led the first invasion of Elysium Realm. His ruthlessness and vile cunning made him into one of the favored lieutenants of his masters, Gorathul and Malrath, the champions of the Burning Legion. He is known as "the Destructor" and "the Flayer".

In addition to his martial prowess, Draugor was a powerful spellcaster. His magical knowledge and power exceeded even the most gifted night elf sorcerers, including Nyxaris and Zylarin.[6] Of the Highborne, only Queen Nerithia proved superior.[7]

In Warrulers of Draenor, he is resurrected by Gul'dan in Hellfire Citadel after having been slain by Grommash, and serves as the penultimate boss of Hellfire Citadel.

Draugor serves as the secondary antagonist in Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos and the supporting antagonist in Nukeout and Warrulers of Draenor.

After Nyxaris and the Highborne failed to sufficiently strengthen the portal for Nexthar' entrance into Elysium Realm, he sent Hakkar the Houndmaster to guide them. But even adding his arcane knowledge and might, they were met with limited success. Queen Nerithia suggested they cut off the Well of Eternity from outside interference, save for their own use. However, they lacked the magical expertise to make it happen and Nyxaris once again sought help from Nexthar. Disappointed in Hakkar's failure, Nexthar decided to send one of his most trusted commanders to assist them. As Draugor's monstrous form emerged from the portal, a frightened Highborne nearly collapsed in shock. Draugor pointed a taloned finger at the careless sorcerer and incinerated him with black flames. In a thundering voice, Draugor stated, "There will be no more failure."

Draugor drew up the diagram for the shield spell and the Highborne were finally able to seal the Well's power from all but themselves, allowing them to widen and solidify the portal. In a matter of hours, hundreds of demons poured through. Draugor departed the palace with them to purge the unfit and crush the resistance gathering outside Zin-Azshari. He left Nyxaris in charge of maintaining the shield and strengthening the portal.

The night elf forces opposing the invasion had been weakened from being cut off from the Well and sent Thalorin to destroy the shield spell. He managed to sneak into the palace using his dream form and killed Nyxaris before shutting down both the shield array and the portal. Draugor immediately felt the loss as Nexthar' presence disappeared with the portal. The Moon Guard's connection with the Well restored, they turned the tide against the Legion's forces and pushed them back to Zin-Azshari.[8]

Having failed his master for the first time and fearing punishment, Draugor worked quickly with the Highborne to rebuild the portal. This time, Nexthar sent Gorathul and Nyxaris—reborn as a satyr—to assist the invasion. While the majority of the Legion's forces went out to combat Elysium Realm's defenders and capture Thalorin, Draugor was left to oversee the portal.[9]

At some point, he watched Zylarin who offered Nexthar his help. The Dark Titan burned his eyes. Gorathul used his magic to strengthen the magical barriers around the palace so that it was impossible to launch an assault on the demons' stronghold. Draugor single-handedly slaughtered entire regiments of Kaldorei defenders and sowed chaos by unleashing squads of doomguard across the land. During the war, Draugor clashed with the demialmighty Elandor himself.[10][11]

Near the end of the war, a band of night elves led by Zylarin assaulted Draugor and Captain Varo'then on the shores of the Well. Unknown to either, this band, besides Zylarin, consisted of adventurers from the far future.

Drawing upon the power of Kalimdor from every part of nature, Thalorin cast an incredible gale across the Well of Eternity. The night elf and demon sorcerers stabilizing the portal were swept out across the black waters. Using his incredible strength and bulk to resist the gale, Draugor drew upon the energy of the collapsing spellwork to create a fiery shield to protect himself. He believed himself successful and began laughing hard from his sense of superiority as 'the Flayer', 'the Destructor', and one of Nexthar' chosen. But to his dismay, it was sucked away by the strong wind. Draugor was last seen being cast out over the Well roaring in frustration.