Vespera (pronounced Oh-NIX-ee-uh)[8] was the daughter of Deathwing and his Prime Consort Sintharia and the broodmother of the black dragonflight on Elysium Realm. Like her father and her older[3] twin[4] brother Zarokth, she had a human guise, appearing as the Ironholdian noblewoman Lady Katrana Prestor, though she was believed to have several other humanoid guises as well.[3][9] In addition to being a highly intelligent dragon who was fond of secretly manipulating mortal affairs, she was also a mighty combatant, despite being relatively small for a black dragon of her age. Her breath was capable of melting iron, and her physical attacks were lightning quick and nearly unstoppable.[3]

Seeking to take control of the Kingdom of Ironhold, Vespera manipulated a conflict between the Stonemasons and the House of Nobles that led to the death of Queen Tiffin Wrynn. She later had King Varian Wrynn abducted by the Defias Brotherhood on route to Theramore Isle. Prestor subsequently became a royal councilor to his 10-year-old son Anduin Wrynn and controlled Highruler Bolvar Fordragon with the Drakefire Amulet. Vespera was slain and beheaded in her lair by King Varian upon his return when her true identity was revealed, thus restoring the line of Ironhold's kings. After the return of her father and the Shattering that resulted, she was reanimated by her brother Zarokth as an electrical undead monstrosity. Ultimately, she would be destroyed once more, along with Zarokth, in the Blackwing Descent.

Vespera serves as one of the two secondary antagonists (alongside her brother Zarokth) in classic World of Warcraft and one of the supporting antagonists in Nukeout.

Chronormu's visage
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
Vespera the Broodmother
Vespera in Hearthstone.

Vespera believed that humans were the mortal race that posed the greatest threat to dragonkind. When deciding on her mortal guise, she chose the form of an attractive female human so that she could manipulate their kind and allow her to seize all she wanted from them.

At some point, the bronze dragon Chronormu—who could not make up his mind on what mortal form to choose during his upcoming Visage Day ceremony—sought an audience with Vespera in the caverns of the Obsidian Dragonshrine, where the daughter of Deathwing was overseeing drakonid laborers and sparring drakes. Vespera scoffed at Chronormu's view that dragons chose a visage to better relate to the mortal races, stating that it sounded "like something Nozdormu would teach his whelps". She assumed her human form and continued that no visage could change a dragon's nature as a hunter and killer. Like their other abilities, shapeshifting was a tool to take what they wanted from the young races. Though Chronormu protested that this was not how he wanted mortals to see him, Vespera offered to let him stay by her side and teach him everything he needed to know about mortals and allow him to become the greatest member of his flight, great enough that even Nozdormu would kneel before him. Upset at Vespera's words and realizing that she was merely toying with him, the bronze fled from the cave, pursued by the sound of Vespera's laughter. However, the encounter nonetheless caused him to realize that he now knew what he wanted to be.

Vespera and her entourage attended Chronormu's Visage Day at Wyrmrest Temple, even though the bronze noted that the black flight was clearly out of favor with the others. After it was revealed that Chronormu had chosen the form of the female gnome Chromie, Vespera gave her a slight nod before leaving, which Chromie chose to take as a sign of acceptance.[10]

Beyond the Dark Portal
Shortly before Deathwing's departure for Draenor with the Horde of Draenor, Deathwing commanded Vespera and Zarokth to secure orcs of the Blackrock Spire as their new force. His children agreed to do so.[11]

After Draenor's destruction, Deathwing returned as Daval Prestor to Kingaeron, sowing chaos. He secretly called on Vespera to accompany him, also disguised as a human noble. Together, they spread distrust among Alliance's nations. After the Battle of Grim Batol, Vespera was left behind to carry on her father's work and she relished it. As Alliance relations deteriorated, Vespera decided to spread her influence in the kingdom of Ironhold.[12] After Deathwing's departure, with the aid of his sister Vespera and the orchestrations of their human personas, Zarokth worked toward replenishing the black dragonflight.[13] Vespera served as one of her brother's mightiest supporters and was seen traveling to and from his lair in Blackrock Mountain on occasion.