Alexstrasza the Life-Binder, Aspect of the red dragonflight, is the guardian of all life in the world of Elysium Realm. She was one of five great dragons chosen by the titans to be empowered with a portion of the Pantheon's power and rule over her flight while they watched over Elysium Realm and its inhabitants. The titans also appointed her queen of all dragons.

Today, Alexstrasza resides at the top of the Wyrmrest Temple in the Dragonblight, a place considered a holy ground for the dragonflights. No longer content to simply watch over the mortal races, the Dragonqueen took action in bringing the dragonflights together to battle the then-hostile blue dragonflight and its Aspect, Malygos, as well as the looming threat of the Lich King.

With the rise of Deathwing during World of Warcraft: Nukeout, Alexstrasza took a very active role in defending Elysium Realm against the Aspect of Death, eventually ordering her entire dragonflight to war against the black dragonflight. Alexstrasza, along with her fellow Aspects, gave their all to stop Deathwing once and for all, but lost much of their power in the process.

She has now passed on her legacy to the mortals of the world.[6] Her humanoid form is that of a high elf.

In Elysium Realm's ancient past, the Dragon Aspects were proto-dragons who stood united against a foe who threatened their entire species: the bloodthirsty Father of Dragons, Galakrond.[8]

Alexstrasza, her brother Dralad, and her younger sister Ysera were the only three survivors of their clutch. Ysera was sick and smaller than average, and Alexstrasza watched out for her.

Alexstrasza was one of the more intelligent of proto-dragons, capable of broken speech unlike most of the other, more animal-like of her kind. When one of her clutch brothers went missing, Alexstrasza searched to find him and met with Malygos. The two were attacked by a savage gray proto-dragon, and though they fought it off Alexstrasza noted that it was frightened of something. Alexstrasza and Malygos would later find her brother, though he was a shriveled husk of flesh and bone.

Some time later, dozens of proto-dragons hunted caribou, Alexstrasza and Ysera included. While Alexstrasza would offer Ysera her kills, Ysera declined. Ysera approached Malygos to ask him about her brother's corpse, which Malygos had found alongside Alexstrasza. She said that there was another corpse she and Alexstrasza had found, though Alexstrasza reprimanded her, saying they had agreed not to speak of that. The two argued, but they were interrupted by the sudden appearance of Galakrond. After the gigantic terror had flown away, a confident grey proto-dragon named Neltharion taunted them all for being afraid.

Ysera and Alexstrasza would later come across the shriveled up corpses of two proto-dragons, including Malygos's old companion Tarys. A small and terrified purple proto-dragon insisted that Galakrond had devoured the dead dragons, which matched theories Malygos had expressed to the two sisters. They went to fetch Malygos so he could meet the purple dragon. After his arrival, the corpses stirred and attacked as undead. Alexstrasza, Malygos, and Ysera tore them apart.

Like the other proto-dragons Alexstrasza would gather under the command of Talonixa. While her sister believed that peace could made with Galakrond and the not-living. Alexstrasza knew that fighting was the only option, however, she vowed to not fight like Talonixa. When Ysera was given a chance to speak her idea of peace, Alexstrasza was worried about Talonixa's reaction. Alexstrasza became outraged that Coros, who encouraged Ysera, did not stand with her. While seemingly supporting her, Malygos later learned that Coros used the meeting as a distraction so that he could join up Galakrond unnoticed following its conclusion in which Talonixa swayed the other proto-dragons to her side on fighting Galakrond.

Witnessing Coros's betrayal and subsequent devouring by Galakrond, Malygos would return to the others only to find Ysera and Talonixa in conflict over the fate of the bitten proto-dragons who had begun to act like Galakrond. Alexstrasza found herself agreeing with Talonixa over the issue. Seeming to agree with Ysera's desire for them to still live, Talonixa decreed that the bitten would have to be quarantined for the safety of everyone else. Alexstrasza watched the bitten dragons be herded into a canyon. She was shocked to see Talonixa collapse it and killing all those trapped inside.


Alexstrasza would then later save her sister from Galakrond, after Ysera tried to plead peace even as the proto-dragon army fought the not-living. As Galakrond began to fight the proto-dragon army, the Watcher Valdren used one of the not-living to catch the sister's attention.

Some time after, Malygos found his way to the three of them, and Ysera attacked him when he tried to kill the bound undead proto-dragon. As Valdren spoke with Malygos, Ysera freed the undead proto-dragon in order to make it see reason, an action which could have killed her if not for Malygos's timely intervention. After destroying the undead Malygos briefly succumbed to the hunger for flesh, but Ysera was able to recall him to his senses and Malygos was then cured by Valdren. Valdren then proposed hunting Galakrond and decided to stand by the proto-dragons this time, revealing a war hammer from beneath his cloak. Lastly, he pulled out an octagonal artifact, moving it to the three proto-dragons as it glowed, with the promise that he was "trying to ensure some future."

Alexstrasza would witness Galakrond returning outside the cavern, chasing Neltharion and Nozdormu. Malygos and Valdren moved to the entrance to witness their battle, and Valdren was overjoyed at the proto-dragons' coordination. Alexstrasza, Malygos and a now full-sized Valdren joined in the battle. Temporarily stunning Galakrond with his hammer, Valdren ordered the proto-dragons to flee as he stayed to battle the monster.

An unknown time later, Valdren met with the five proto-dragons, informing them that Galakrond was sleeping in a mountain range to the north and that it was the perfect time to attack. He told them to eat before doing so, and just before they left Valdren held the octagonal artifact before Nozdormu and Neltharion as he had to the others before. After doing so, Valdren vanished in the blink of an eye.

Valdren and the proto-dragons met up near Galakrond's slumbering place, which Kalecgos would later note in his visions was nowhere near Galakrond's Rest. Save for Ysera, they all began the battle against Galakrond, who had grown larger and even more mutated than before. Throughout the battle, the octagonal object on Valdren's belt glowed ever brighter. When Galakrond suddenly expanded in size without warning, Valdren's hammer could no longer harm him. With a flap of wings, Galakrond called up a massive wind that scattered the fighters. Ysera suddenly appeared and Galakrond attempted to devour her, but Valdren silenced his laughter with a mighty blow from his hammer. Valdren pulled Galakrond to the ground and began to mercilessly beat him even as Galakrond began mutating further - as he began to resemble a true dragon.

In the battle, Valdren's hammer and the strange artifact were knocked free from his person. Valdren reached to grab the artifact, just as Galakrond's massive maw came within range and the monster clamped down on Valdren's hand. Malygos moved to save Valdren, examining the bloody stump as Galakrond roared in triumph and grew ever larger. An unconscious Valdren was brought to a frozen lake by the proto-dragons, only to vanish from the shore. After being attacked by two not-living Alexstrasza and the others found they could not find Valdren where they left him, concluding that some beast must have taken him for food.

After recuperating Alexstrasza and the others decide to hunt down Galakrond in order to kill him once and for all or die trying. It was during this time that Malygos feeling burdened by leadership role cast upon him gave it to Alexstrasza, after she took charge in response to his unvoiced question. Alexstrasza, along with the others would be stunned to learn that Galakrond had begun to devour the not-living in order to feed his hunger and shortly after would engage in battle with the behemoth. During the battle, Galakrond would ultimately be killed after Malygos and Neltharion forced a boulder down his throat.

