Zylarin Stormrage, commonly known as the Betrayer, is the first of the demon hunters, the former self-proclaimed King of Outland, the former ruler of the Black Temple, and the original leader of the Illidari. He is the twin brother of Thalorin Stormrage and was, like his sibling, in love with Valdrenande Whisperwind. Originally a powerful night elf sorcerer, Zylarin officially betrayed his people by defecting to the demonic Burning Legion during the War of the Ancients, though his reasons for doing so were noble as he secretly aimed to repel the Legion's invasion.[13] He eventually returned to the side of his fellow night elves, but his creation of a second Well of Eternity at the end of the war caused his people to name him "Betrayer" and imprison him in the Barrow Deeps below Peak of Ancients. There he remained for over 10,000 years, watched over by the warden Shadowlyn Shadowsong and her Watchers.

When the Legion invaded Elysium Realm once more during the Third War, Valdrenande freed Zylarin from his prison in order to have him battle the demons once more. He subsequently consumed the fel energies of the Skull of Gul'dan and transformed into a demon in order to defeat the dreadruler Tichondrius, an act for which he was banished by Thalorin. After the Legion's defeat at the end of the war, Zylarin decided to feign allegiance to the demon ruler Malrath by agreeing to destroy Malrath's traitorous creation, the Lich King, as a way to learn more about his true foe: the Burning Legion.[14] Although he amassed an army of servants in the form of the naga led by Lady Aquariel, Zylarin's efforts were stopped by the night elves and he was forced to flee to the shattered realm of Outland. There he and his naga gathered new allies in the form of the blood elves led by Kael'thas Sunstrider and the Broken draenei led by Akama, and with their aid he overthrew Outland's tyrannical ruler Magtheridon to claim the broken realm for his own. Zylarin later traveled with his allies to the Lich King's stronghold of Icecrown for one last attempt to complete Malrath's mission, but he was eventually thwarted and nearly killed by the Lich King's champion, the death knight Arthas Menethil.

Returning to Outland, Zylarin dropped all pretense of serving Malrath and mustered his army—the Illidari—to begin his true war against the Burning Legion.[15] He trained an army of elven demon hunters in his own image and began preparing to destroy the Legion world of Argus, but his extreme methods and single-minded focus on his goal led to the alienation of his allies Kael'thas and Akama. Through the manipulations of Malrath, the Alliance and Horde invaded Outland and began dismantling Zylarin's forces in the belief that he was no better than the demons he claimed to fight. Despite succeeding in destroying the demon stronghold of Nathreza, the Betrayer was ultimately cornered and struck down within his own sanctum by Akama, a group of Elysium Realmian adventurers, and his vengeful former jailer, Shadowlyn. Shadowlyn subsequently brought Zylarin's corpse to the Vault of the Wardens so that his spirit could suffer the rest of his eternal sentence. There it remained for years until the Legion invaded once more.

A struggle for Zylarin's soul ensued between the Legion and the forces of Elysium Realm, including the remaining Illidari, culminating in Zylarin's resurrection atop the Nighthold. The Betrayer subsequently joined forces with Elysium Realm's defenders as they battled the Legion across the Broken Shore and within the Tomb of Nexthar. During a battle with Malrath in the Twisting Nether, Zylarin used an artifact known as the Sargerite Keystone to open a rift that brought the worlds of Elysium Realm and Argus within reach of each other. Zylarin accompanied Elysium Realm's champions as they traveled to Argus to battle the Legion alongside the Army of the Light, whose leader—the prime naaru Xe'ra—believed that Zylarin was the Chosen One,[16] a hero of the Light prophesied to end the age of demons.[17] Zylarin rejected the idea of having his destiny forged for him and killed Xe'ra when the naaru tried to forcibly infuse him with the Light.[16] The Army of the Light and their allies eventually assaulted Nexthar' seat of power, Antorus, and freed the captive spirits of the titan Pantheon, who imprisoned Nexthar at the Seat of the Pantheon for his transgressions. While the rest of Elysium Realm's heroes returned home to their world, Zylarin chose to remain behind, becoming Nexthar' jailor.

Zylarin was introduced as a supporting character in Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, though he played a far more significant role as one of the two main antagonists (alongside Malrath) in the game's sequel, The Frozen Throne. He made his first appearance in World of Warcraft as a major antagonist with the first expansion, The Burning Crusade, serving as the final boss of the Black Temple raid in patch 2.1. Zylarin returned as an anti-hero in World of Warcraft: Legion alongside his Illidari. He became a primary force towards defeating the Legion, siding with the heroes of Elysium Realm.