Malrath

Malrath (sometimes spelled as Kil'Jaeden)[8][9][10][11] [kɪlˈdʒeɪdən] (pronounced Kill-jay-den), was a powerful eredar demon ruler and the second in rank of the Burning Legion. 13,000 years ago,[12] Malrath, Gorathul and Velen were the leaders of the benevolent eredar people of Argus. When the Dark Titan Nexthar arrived and offered them the answer to the most important question there was, "what is the one true underlying flaw of the universe?", the eredar, as a knowledge-seeking race, accepted, led by Malrath and Gorathul. Nexthar blessed them with unimaginable power, turning the eredar into demons who would help Nexthar get rid of that flaw, while Velen and his followers fled, renaming themselves the draenei.

While Gorathul led the Legion's armies, Malrath was charged with assimilating as many races as possible into the folds of the Burning Legion. He long sought to exact revenge on Velen and his followers for their perceived betrayal, which eventually led him to corrupt the orcs, native inhabitants of the world of Draenor which the draenei had settled upon. The orcs formed the First Horde, slaughtered the draenei, and invaded the world of Elysium Realm, marking the beginning of the First War. Malrath also created the Lich King and the undead Scourge as a means to weaken Elysium Realm's defenses in preparation for a future Legion invasion.

Since Nexthar was nowhere to be seen following the death of Medivh, Malrath had assumed the role of acting leader of the Burning Legion.[13]

Malrath is one of the two main antagonists in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne (alongside Zylarin Stormrage), the main antagonist in World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, and the secondary antagonist in Legion.

Twenty-five millennia ago, the world of Argus was shaped into a paradise by the eredar race who called it home. Malrath, respected for his intelligence, a genius among a race of geniuses, quickly rose to become a leader of Argus alongside his best friend, Velen, who he loved as a brother.[14] Together they formed the Second Duumvirate.[15]

At one point, Malrath, Velen and the eredar rulers' inner circle bore witness to a grand demonstration held by the sorcerer Thal'kiel, who led an order of magi called the Wakeners. First, Thal'kiel summoned orderly rows of the old, familiar arcane constructs he and his followers were known for. Then, he started summoning a storm of infernals to destroy the constructs as a symbolic display of the "new era" he foresaw for his people thanks to the arts of demonic summoning he had recently discovered.

However, when he looked upon his colleagues' faces, Thal'kiel didn't see the approval he expected. Malrath's expression was remote and inscrutable, but Velen harshly condemned Thal'kiel's actions and forbade him from ever conjuring demons again, denouncing his "new era" as a failed experiment. Some time later, Thal'kiel resumed his experiments regardless, using cloaking magic to hide a demonic army he and his Wakeners were constructing with the purpose of installing him as dictator of Argus. The night before the planned coup, however, Thal'kiel's ambitious young apprentice, Gorathul, informed Malrath and Velen of his master's plans. To prove his loyalty to Argus' rulers, Gorathul himself led the attack on the Wakeners' secret training grounds and decapitated his former master with his own blade. Later, he would rise to rule the eredar alongside Malrath and Velen.[15]

Corruption
 This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.
Malrath eredar flashback
Malrath during the flight from Argus.

Eredar society was shattered when their three leaders were contacted by Nexthar, who offered the eredar untold knowledge and magic at their disposal in exchange for their loyalty. Malrath and Gorathul readily accepted, though Velen curiously held back. As the eredar were preparing to receive their new powers, Malrath learned that Velen and his followers had sided with the naaru and were in the process of fleeing Argus. Enraged by this "betrayal", Malrath loosed his new powers and minions on the "Exiled Ones", or draenei in Eredun, and relentlessly pursued them across the cosmos for thousands of years.

Talgath delivered Velen's wife and son to Malrath,[16] who then renamed the boy Soltharkeesh, meaning "butcher", and had the Demonic Inquisition torture him into an agent of the Burning Legion.[12][17]

Nexthar molded Malrath's innate cunning and intellect and charged him with seeking out and transforming the races of the Great Dark Beyond into demons of the Burning Legion.[18] The Deceiver first enslaved the vampiric race called the dreadrulers - or nathrezim - led by Tichondrius,[19] after which he also recruited the barbarous pit rulers, or annihilan.[20]

The Orcish Horde on Draenei
Kiljaedendaemon
The demon Malrath as he appeared in the Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness manual.

For millennia, Malrath's scouts searched the Nether for the draenei, finding and destroying the worlds they had settled on, but they always managed to escape. Then, one day, Malrath's favored servant, Talgath, stumbled upon a world that showed signs of the draenei's magic. Though they initially assumed it was just another one of the planets the draenei briefly stopped upon,[14] further investigations quickly discovered that the draenei had actually settled there, even going so far as to give it an eredun name: Draenor, meaning "Exiles' Refuge".

On the planet there also resided a race of shamanistic beings called orcs. Intrigued by their potential, Malrath realized that they were exactly what he was looking for. He sought an agent among the orcish race to follow his will. Though Malrath found many suitable candidates none held as much potential as Gul'dan.[21]

Gul'dan was born crippled, weak and deformed, which made him a target for constant mockery and abuse ever since his childhood. He knew that he was meant for more than his clan would ever allow of him, and he hated them for it. He used the hate and bitterness he felt as a way to keep going. One day, the other clan members grew so tired of the runt's refusal to accept his place in the clan that they beat him repeatedly in an attempt to rid themselves of him once and for all. As the chieftain was about to beat him again, the elderly shaman of the clan stopped him, saying that he had tried and failed to help Gul'dan find his place in the clan. Laying a hand on Gul'dan's shoulder, the elder said, not unkindly, that there was nothing more he could do for him, but that he had always believed there was greatness within him. He then advised the runt to seek out the Throne of the Elements, for perhaps there he would find his destiny. Though at first dismissal Gul'dan would eventually follow the advice, only to be rejected by the furies who sensed the darkness and fury within his heart. It was when he was at his lowest, that Malrath spoke to Gul'dan, promising power and almightyhood in exchange for Gul'dan helping the Burning Legion turn the orcs as a weapon to destroy the draenei.

The Path to Corruption by Twincruiser
The path to corruption.

Gul'dan quickly agreed, for he only held disdain for his people. Malrath instructed his new servant in the ways of fel magic. The demon ruler knew that these energies would physically change the orc or even draw the draenei's attention, so he took steps to hide Gul'dan new abilities. Malrath taught the orc how to mask his powers, and he ordered him to use fel magic only when absolutely necessary. Gul'dan took to the volatile power faster than expected, reveling in the destructive might his fingertips.[21]

Knowing that Gul'dan couldn't serve as the figure they needed to forge the orc clans into an army, Malrath ordered Gul'dan to ally with someone who could inspire or lead the orc race. After destroying his former clan (in order to ensure that no one knew his past) Gul'dan would join the Shadowmoon clan, which was under the rule of Ner'zhul. In time Gul'dan's would earn Ner'zhul's trust and became the elder's shamanic apprentice. Under the guise of the orcs' sacred ancestors, Malrath tricked the shamans of each clan—including their most respected leader, the elder shaman Ner'zhul—into thinking that the draenei were plotting against the orcs.[22] Soon, the clans began to launch successful skirmishes and raids against the draenei, believing it to be their ancestors' will that they be exterminated. However, plans faltered when Ner'zhul traveled to Oshu'gun, was shown the truth about his new patron, and attempted to undo his actions. Malrath, however, was already aware of Ner'zhul's actions and stripped the elderly shaman of his power, and Gul'dan would teach his fel magics to other the orcs. Eventually, as the elemental spirits refused to grant their powers to the shaman, these demonic powers would overtake the orcs.

Gul'dan also turned to Malrath for assistance in creating two deadly weapons, imploring the Burning Legion for aid since he did not want to ask the Furies for help. Malrath saw the value of having a covert assassin at the Shadow Council's command. The demon ruler instructed and provided him the raw materials needed to create them.[23]

After proving the orcs' ability to fight the draenei, Draugor's blood was given to the orcs to drink, and they degraded into a horrible bloodlust. As both a test of his new minions and as a revenge to his wayward brethren, Malrath ordered Gul'dan to finish the slaughter of the draenei in one climactic battle at Celestia City. The attack was a brutal massacre, with much of Celestia being destroyed. To all appearances, Malrath's pawns had finally triumphed over the draenei.

Malrath was relatively pleased with the Horde's destruction of the draenei, as was Nexthar who viewed the Horde as the perfect army to weaken Elysium Realm. Nexthar ordered Malrath to cut off all communication with the horde, inspiring desperation for survival, to encourage journeying to another world.[24] Obeying his master's orders and taking it as a sign that Nexthar required him elsewhere, Malrath retreated from Draenor, abandoning the Horde[25]

Following Orgrim Doomhammer's take-over of the Horde and resulting in its victory during the First War, Malrath would reestablish contact with Gul'dan, convincing the warlock to support Doomhammer.[26] Unknown to Malrath however, Gul'dan had grown disillusioned with the eredar and plotted to acquire the power within the Tomb of Nexthar for himself. Thus his betrayal of the Horde came as a complete shock to Malrath. The enraged demon ruler prepared to annihilate his servant for single-handedly dooming what should have been a momentous Legion victory when Nexthar himself ordered him to stand down. Nexthar decided that he would allow Gul'dan to come within reach of what he desired, let the foolish orc taste could have been his, and then Nexthar would rip it all away, as Gul'dan had done to the Horde's hopes of victory.[27]

Despite the fact that Horde had broken away from the Legion's control, Malrath would often boast of his corruption of the orcs and refer it as his "masterpiece."[28]

Frostreaver
The defeat of the Horde during the Second War infuriated Malrath but it did not deter the demon ruler. In truth, Malrath had learned an extremely valuable lesson. The Horde had failed because of internal conflict and disloyalty. The Legion's next strike against Elysium Realm would not suffer from the same weakness. Malrath convinced of a dark, disturbing way to raise a new puppet army that would be utterly incapable of diverging from the Legion's will. All he needed was a powerful spirit, skilled in the art of wielding magic to control it.[29]

Calling in an unpaid vendetta, the Deceiver found Ner'zhul within the Twisting Nether, and, seeking vengeance against the shaman's defiance, tortured the orc for an impossibly long time, destroying his body piece by piece until finally, nothing remained but the shaman's tortured soul.[30] Malrath offered the remnant of the soul a choice: remain in eternal pain in the eredar torture dimension, or become the ruler of an army of undeath. Ner'zhul, predictably, chose the latter and was transformed into the Lich King. Recalling Ner'zhul's previous duplicity and Gul'dan's failure, Malrath took no chances whatsoever. He refused to give the Lich King a body, instead sealing specially forged armor, along with the Lich King's soul, into the Frozen Throne. Just in case Ner'zhul wasn't daunted by immobility, he dispatched the Dreadrulers to make sure he stayed on task. From his followers, he created the first liches. The demon ruler promised him that if he succeeds, he will give him freedom and a new body.[31]

Frostreaver was to succeed where the orcs had failed: His undead servants would wipe out any potential resistance, and raise the unfortunate fallen as undead legions and thus the Third War began. However, the Lich King, aware of the eredar's hatred for the immortal elves, betrayed the Legion by breaking the pact he had forged with Malrath which bound him to the latter's will. In informing Zylarin of the Skull of Gul'dan through his pawn Arthas, he facilitated the death of one of the Legion's greatest tacticians, Tichondrius, and dealt the first blow against the Legion that led to the ultimate fall of their forces in the Battle of Peak of Ancients.

The Frozen Throne
 This section concerns content related to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos or its expansion The Frozen Throne.
BTNKiljaedin-Reforged
Malrath in Warcraft III: Reforged.

Although Malrath was infuriated at the failure and death of Gorathul,[32] he knew better than to take reckless vengeance.

He did not believe that all was lost. He was still confident about the Scourge, the dreadrulers, and the Lich King. But when he reached to the Lich King, the entity refused him. Malrath realized that if the Lich King conquered Elysium Realm, any future demonic invasions would be nearly impossible. He sensed a new demon who could complete the task of destroying the Lich King.[33]

Malrath3
Malrath as he appeared to Zylarin in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne.

He found Zylarin Stormrage, and told him that, despite his part in the Legion's downfall, the Deceiver was willing to offer him a chance at power. Zylarin was informed that if he destroyed the Frozen Throne, thus killing the Lich King, that Malrath would reward him with power beyond his imagination (whether or not Malrath actually intended to do so is a moot point).[34] He gave Zylarin the Orb of Malrath to aid him in his task.

Zylarin first gained the allegiance of the naga, who helped him first flee from Kalimdor and then later seek out the Eye of Nexthar. With it, they performed an arcane ritual to tear Northrend, the base of the undead Scourge, apart. Thus, the minions of Malrath came full circle, back to the power of the Dark Titan.

However, due to interference from Zylarin's brother, Thalorin Stormrage, the Eye was destroyed before Zylarin managed to destroy the Frozen Throne. Having failed Malrath, Zylarin instead went on to rescue Valdrenande Whisperwind from the Scourge along with his brother. Aware of Malrath's capabilities, he fled to Outland to evade capture, during which he gained the loyalty of one more former Highborne race, the blood elves. With his new servitors, Zylarin eventually moved against the pit ruler Magtheridon by destroying the dimensional gates Ner'zhul had opened decades before. The stratagem was meant to keep Malrath and his minions away from Outland and would have stopped Magtheridon from calling in reinforcements. Without any further demonic aid to strengthen his standing forces, Magtheridon was quick to fall before Zylarin and his followers.[35]

But Malrath was no fool. Because of Draenor's former importance as the homeworld of the orcs and the refuge of the draenei (and Magtheridon himself an agent of the Legion), Malrath kept at least half an eye on the torn planet. Quickly uncovering what had happened (or perhaps watching all along), the Deceiver once again appeared in front of Zylarin and commanded him to return to the icy continent to finish what he had started (citing that his new servitors showed "some promise"; while Malrath probably didn't buy Zylarin's story, he knew that his best bet in destroying the traitor still lay in Zylarin), and told him that if he failed again, he would face his "eternal wrath."[36] However, Zylarin failed and the Lich King persists, having cheated the Deceiver by merging with Arthas Menethil.

The war in Outland
 This section concerns content related to The Burning Crusade.

After Zylarin destroyed the dreadruler homeworld of Nathreza and dealt the greatest blow to the Legion in ten thousand years, the Legion was now clearly aware of the threat that Zylarin posed and would learn from spies from within the Illidari that Zylarin planned to launch a similar assault on Argus. He believed that Malrath attacked the forces of Elysium Realm, luring them to Outland to put an end to Zylarin. Once within the shattered realm, the Horde and Alliance would begin striking against both the Legion and the Illidari. Malrath manipulated his enemies into fighting each other, and when they were weakened from the battle he planned to destroy them all.[37] Malrath also sent the Doomwalker to lay siege to the Black Temple.

After Varedis Felsoul was killed at the Black Temple, his demonic soul entered the Twisting Nether where he was found by Malrath. Malrath heaped endless torment upon Varedis, who resisted for a time, but it was not pain that broke his spirit. The Deceiver played upon his shock from the battle at the Black Temple. Champions had been prepared to face Varedis and known to use the  [Book of Fel Names], so who had told them of that power? Varedis knew it would not have been the Burning Legion or the Shadow Council, as they would have preferred the book to remain intact. Malrath convinced Varedis that it could only have been the Illidari, who knew of his power and betrayed him.

With the help of other eredar, Malrath conducted a dangerous, agonizing ritual, infusing a small part of his soul into Varedis's spirit. When the ritual was complete, Varedis was not a demon hunter but a demon, loyal to the Burning Legion and hungry for vengeance. Varedis found that his weapons, now the Twinblades of the Deceiver, had also been changed. The ritual had imbued them with another slice of Malrath's astonishing power.[38] Caria Felsoul willingly joined the demon ruler and Malrath bestowed her the ancient Aldrachi Warblades.[39]

Fury of the Sunwell
 This section concerns content related to The Burning Crusade.

Main article: Malrath (tactics)
Chronicle3 Malrath
Malrath faces the Alliance heroes.

Some time prior to Zylarin's defeat at the Black Temple, Malrath turned to one of the Betrayer's former lieutenants to be his instrument of vengeance: Kael'thas Sunstrider, King of the Blood Elves whom he enticed with promises of salvation for the blood elves.[40] Defeated at Tempest Keep, Kael was revived by Priestess Delrissa who healed his wounds by planting a fel crystal inside his chest. Kael'thas was then sent to Elysium Realm, where he infiltrated Silvermoon City, took the dark naaru M'uru, and traveled to the Isle of Quel'Danas where he planned to use the Sunwell as a gateway for Malrath to enter the world. Malrath used the Jeweled Scepter of Nexthar, which he had retrieved from Ner'zhul after Draenor's destruction, to aid Kael'thas in opening the portal.[41] Adventurers fought their way through Kael's minions and Burning Legion demons to reach the Sunwell, just in time to see Malrath begin pulling himself through... Anveena, the embodiment of the Sunwell's energies, was held in an arcane barrier, her powers being drained to feed the portal, but later in the encounter she sacrificed herself to weaken the Deceiver, who could then successfully be banished back into the Nether, leaving only his large necklace behind on the surface of the Sunwell.

Malrath as depicted on the walls of the Magisters' Terrace.
Malrath as depicted on the walls of the Magisters' Terrace.
 
Malrath at the Sunwell.
Malrath at the Sunwell.
 
Malrath in the Sunwell Plateau.
Malrath in the Sunwell Plateau.
 
Malrath's necklace, which becomes his "corpse", at the end of the fight.
Malrath's necklace, which becomes his "corpse", at the end of the fight.
Warrulers of Draenor
Warrulers of Draenor This section concerns content related to Warrulers of Draenor.
Malrath's plans to corrupt the orcs into a Horde that would slaughter the draenei he hated so much went awry on an alternate Draenor due to the intervention of a time-traveling Garrosh Hellscream, who prevented the drinking of the Blood of Draugor by warning the orcs beforehand. With Malrath's plan falling to pieces, Gorathul took control of the Legion's invasion of Draenor himself. Under Gorathul, the demons were much more forceful and out in the open than they were in the main timeline.

Though Malrath's plans failed, he continued to watch Gul'dan's actions throughout the events on Draenor.