Thalorin Stormrage was the first mortal[14] druid on Elysium Realm,[15][16][17] and the night elf who initiated the mainstream use of druidism among the kaldorei people ten millennia ago under tutelage of the demialmighty Elandor. He is the twin brother of Zylarin Stormrage, as well as the loving and beloved husband of the high priestess of Elune, Valdrenande Whisperwind. Together, the two have represented the highest leadership of the night elves ever since the fall of Queen Nerithia and her Highborne caste.

Through Thalorin's guidance, the night elves successfully halted the Burning Legion's first invasion of Elysium Realm during the legendary War of the Ancients. In its aftermath, he became the greatest of the world's archdruids. Thalorin and his druids slept to protect the Emerald Dream for 10,000 years to rebuild the world while his lover Valdrenande was promoted to General of the Sentinels and would protect Kalimdor. Thalorin and Valdrenande then led the night elves in the Third War, defeating the Burning Legion as they had done in ages past at the Battle of Peak of Ancients. He subsequently fell into a comatose state while in the Emerald Dream.

After recovering in the wake of the Nukeout, Thalorin and Valdrenande were wed and now lead their people as one. Thalorin is often referred to as Shan'do, which means "honored teacher" in Darnassian. Connected deeply to the ebbs and flows of life on Elysium Realm and bearing ages of responsibility and wisdom,[18] he is one of the mightiest and most venerated mortals of the Warcraft universe.[19][20][21][22]

Thalorin serves as one of the main protagonists in the Warcraft franchise.

Thalorin and his twin brother, Zylarin, were born at Lorlathil in Val'sharah[23] and grew up in Suramar as friends with Valdrenande Whisperwind. As a young adult his home was located near a waterfall just outside of Suramar, chosen by him because of the tranquility and untouched nature of the falls.[24]

Thalorin and Zylarin's parents died years before the coming War of the Ancients.

Thalorin was the most dedicated of Elandor' disciples, learning the art of druidism in the forest of Val'sharah. Under the tutelage of wise Elandor, he had become the first mortal druid on Elysium Realm.[17] In the ancient world before the Great Sundering, Thalorin was a respected scholar loyal to his admired Queen Nerithia. He was among the first to notice the distance Nerithia and her followers were keeping from their people, and he began to suspect that the powers granted by the Well of Eternity were not as pure as all had believed. Though he could not possibly fathom what was soon to come, Thalorin knew that the Kaldorei would be forever changed.

Nerithia and her Highborne were interested in the Well and ordered them to find as much as possible about the well. As time passed, the Highborne learned how to draw power from the Well and manipulate its energies. Finally, Nerithia's reckless use of magic drew the attention of Nexthar, Enemy of All Life and King of the Burning Legion. By opening a portal in Nerithia's palace, Nerithia's Highborne sorcerers, led by High King Counselor Nyxaris, let hordes of demons into Kalimdor, including the Legion's commanders — Gorathul, Draugor, and Hakkar the Houndmaster — enabling them to run rampant among the lands and striking down all who opposed them. The night elves desperately fought them back, but too many were falling to lend them aid. The Burning Legion was winning. The highborne also managed to cast a bigger portal over the Well of Eternity to start the summoning of Nexthar.

But from the ranks of the desperate Kaldorei rose Thalorin Stormrage. Convincing his twin brother, Zylarin, to forsake the use of magic, Thalorin and his love, Valdrenande Whisperwind, high priestess of Elune, quickly went to seek out the demialmighty Elandor in the hopes that he might have reprieve for their beleaguered people.

Thalorin Mercenaries 1
The young Thalorin.

Even with the help of Elandor and Alexstrasza the Dragon Queen, Thalorin knew that his people could not stand up to the constant barrage of demonic invaders. Believing the Well of Eternity to be their gateway, Thalorin decided that it must be destroyed. Knowing that its destruction would render them mortal and without any magic, the night elves reluctantly agreed to storm Nerithia's stronghold and bring an end to the invasion.

However, Zylarin, spurred by his addiction to magic and his frustrated love for Valdrenande, refused to give up his power, and left their resistance to warn the Highborne. Knowing that Zylarin would quickly reach them, Thalorin attacked immediately to retain some surprise.

Nerithia and her highborne were prepared for them, and her chaotic magics ripped Thalorin's forces to shreds. But it was the sight of Valdrenande falling to the hands of Nerithia's former Highborne, now transformed into satyrs that gave Thalorin the strength for one final strike.

Nerithia's battle with Thalorin threw the portal out of its magical alignment, and the vortex grew unstable. Thalorin cast a spell to create a gigantic gale that would rip all the demons from the ground and send them on a one-way trip into the Well and to the Twisting Nether. The Well of Eternity then started to collapse on itself, pulling land, Nerithia's palace and the ruined city of Zin-Azshari into itself. Although Nexthar knew that the portal was closing, he tried to do the unthinkable - step into the portal to recreate it and enter Elysium Realm. The portal finally collapsed and trapped Nexthar in it. The Well of Eternity exploded in a catastrophic eruption that left the world sundered forever.

However, Thalorin survived. Constructing crude rafts and sailing to what would become Kalimdor, Thalorin, Valdrenande, and Elandor agreed to lead their people to a new home.

To their horror, however, a lake atop Peak of Ancients had become fouled by the magical energies of the Well of Eternity, which they had hoped was gone forever. Zylarin, who had sought to preserve the arcane magic he was addicted to, had taken seven vials of the Well's waters and poured three of them into the lake, creating a new Well of Eternity. Knowing that Zylarin's addiction to magic would always be a threat to the safety of the world, Thalorin imprisoned his brother in the caverns below Hyjal; the Barrow Deeps. However, with the Sundering still fresh in their minds, Thalorin and the night elves dared not attempt to destroy the new Well. Thalorin would later note that sometimes he went to visit Zylarin in his prison in the hopes of turning him from his fatal path.[26]

Seeking the counsel of the Aspects, Thalorin requested the presence of Alexstrasza, Ysera, and Nozdormu, returned from their hiding places, and they were shocked to hear of the new Well. All of them suspected that the Burning Legion would sniff out its energies once again and find Elysium Realm a second time.

Thalorin agreed, and they all decided to safeguard this Well. To this end, they created the World Tree, Nordrassil, which they pledged to use to protect the Well of Eternity and the night elves themselves. Alexstrasza, the Life-Binder, grew the tree herself from an enchanted acorn of G'Hanir. Nozdormu, the Timeless, placed an enchantment upon the tree: for as long as it stood, the night elves would never die of old age or sickness. Ysera, the Dreamer, linked Nordrassil to the Emerald Dream. Through the tree, she would slowly rebuild the world. However, to maintain the Emerald Dream, she needed consciousnesses to roam its eternal pathways. To sustain it, all the druids agreed to sleep for centuries at a time, despite the years they would lose, and be linked to the Emerald Dream forever.

Thalorin and Valdrenande helped their people rebuild their society amongst the forests of Twilight Vale surrounding Hyjal. Elandor taught them the ways of the wood, and Thalorin grew considerably in power as he learned the art of the druid, and he became a great Archdruid, first among his people.

Though he dearly wished to remain with Valdrenande, Thalorin and his druid kindred slept peacefully for many years until they were awakened by an attack by Dath'Remar and the Highborne survivors. He was quickly routed, but the druids refused to destroy them with so many lives already lost, so Thalorin decided that the Highborne were to be exiled. Dath'remar and his followers would later become the high elves. Though it pained his heart beyond belief, Thalorin left Valdrenande to rejoin the Emerald Dream, settling into his long sleep in Thalorin's Barrow Den in Moonglade.