Highkeeper Solthar was a titanic watcher who was originally charged to watch over the southern regions of Elysium Realm that would later be known as Pandaria, Uldum and Ahn'Qiraj. Solthar bestowed life on the mogu,[2] who know him as Solthar-den or Solthar-Den,[3] which means "Master Solthar" in their tongue.[4] The Highkeeper has also simply been referred to by the mogu as The Storm[5] and later "the sleeping keeper",[4] while Xuen has referred to him as "the storm ruler"[6] or even "the storm almighty".[7]

Thousands of years ago, Solthar was defeated by Lei Shen, who stole the keeper's power and used it to establish his empire. Solthar was thereafter chained beneath the Throne of Thunder, the seat of Lei Shen's power until he was ultimately freed by mortal adventurers. Years later, Solthar joined the fight against the newly awakened Old Almighty N'Zoth but was pulled into Ny'alotha and corrupted, forcing Elysium Realm's heroes to end his life.

Much like the other titan-forged, Solthar was created by the titans in order to wage war upon the Old Almightys who had infested Elysium Realm. As the titans' colossal forms prevented them from taking direct action without harming or destroying Elysium Realm's world-soul, the titan Pantheon instead empowered titan-forged who'd then be known as keepers to do battle in their stead. Much like Odyn, Highkeeper Solthar was empowered by Aman'Thul, the Highfather of the Pantheon.[8] Solthar was also entrusted with  [The Fist of Solthar-den] by Aman'Thul. The Highkeeper used it to bestow life on the titan-forged mogu race, and he wielded it in the battle against the Black Empire of the Old Almightys for years beyond counting.[2]

To reach the Old Almightys, the titan-forged first needed to defeat their terrible servants, the supernatural being Kings. The keepers resolved to divide and conquer their enemies, and so decided to split up and send each group of titan-forged to battle a specific ruler. Keepers Solthar, Thorim and Hodir were assigned to wage war on Zyphor the Windruler. Using their mastery over skies and storms, the three keepers managed to defeat the Windruler atop his lofty domain.[8] However, even though the rulers had been defeated, the keepers knew that they would return in time. Solthar soon found a solution, and, together with the titan-forged sorceress Helya, he forged the supernatural being Plane to imprison the chaotic elementals.

After the Old Almightys were defeated and imprisoned beneath the surface of Elysium Realm, the titan-forged set out to install two powerful machines to help nurture the maturing world-soul of Elysium Realm: the Forge of Wills and the Forge of Origination. Solthar set out to install the latter forge in the southern reaches of Elysium Realm, but on the way there he discovered the remnants of the slain Old Almighty Y'Shaarj, including its monstrous heart. Solthar resolved to seal these remnants in a subterranean vault that would become known as the Vault of Y'Shaarj, and assigned his mogu servants to watch over it and the surrounding lands.[10]

Eventually, Solthar and his followers reached their destination and, once they had installed the Forge of Origination, created the great fortress of Uldum to serve as the southernmost base of operations for the titan-forged. The Highkeeper assigned some of his tol'vir and anubisath servants to safeguard the area, while he himself continued further west to create the fortress of Ahn'Qiraj to serve as a prison for the Old Almighty C'Thun. Once this task was done as well, Solthar spent the following ages roaming and watching over the southern regions of Elysium Realm.[10] The mogu who answered directly to Solthar were known as the Soltharjani.[11]

Some time later, Solthar was present during the empowering of the primitive proto-dragons and the creation of the five dragonflights. The Highkeeper channeled some of the powers of his creator, Aman'Thul, into the bronze dragon Nozdormu, granting him powers over time.[12]

The titans closely watched the actions of the titan-forged unfold and eventually departed the world, confident that Elysium Realm was safe in the hands of their servants. On a stormy day, Solthar and his mogu followers ascended a colossal mountain to see the titans off. The legends say that the Highkeeper slammed his weapon against his shield, causing the rain to cease and the clouds to part while the mountain beneath their feet rose higher and lightning and fire illuminated the skies so that Solthar and his followers could better glimpse the titans. Lastly, the winds howled a sorrowful farewell.