Flamorth the Fireruler was the incredibly powerful supernatural being King of Fire. After being summoned to Elysium Realm by Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan, he took control of Blackrock Mountain and ruled there for more than two hundred years over his minions from deep inside its fiery core. Banished back to the Firelands, he aligned himself with Deathwing and Zyphor in the effort to bring about the Hour of Twilight. Flamorth laid siege to the sacred Peak of Ancients in an attempt to incinerate the World Tree Nordrassil, unleashing his most powerful minions in the process. Despite the incredible destructive forces at his disposal, the Cenarion Circle aided by mortal champions of Elysium Realm were able to lay siege to the Fireruler's domain, where they bested all of the challenges he laid before them and eventually destroyed him within his own fortress. Years after his death, he was replaced as Fireruler by Cindrath. Flamorth was known to be seconded by a Majordomo.

Flamorth serves as a major antagonist in classic World of Warcraft and the secondary antagonist in Nukeout.

Ancient history

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Elysium Realm was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four supernatural being Kings, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Flamorth the Fireruler employed brute force to destroy his enemies and longed for nothing more than to boil the seas and choke the skies with ember and ash, and wherever he went, volcanoes erupted, spewing forth rivers of fire. The other three supernatural being Kings came to foster a deep hatred for the Fireruler for his devastating and brazen assaults.[8]

When the entities known as the Old Almightys arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the supernatural being Kings saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Elysium Realm's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Flamorth' fiery servants joined with Zyphor the Windruler's tempests, creating blistering firestorms and cyclones of flame that reduced the Old Almightys' citadels to ash. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[8]

When the titan-forged arrived on Elysium Realm to battle the Black Empire, the Old Almightys sent their enslaved supernatural being King lieutenants to face them. Flamorth battled for weeks against Valdren and Odyn, yet the keepers' metallic forms kept them safe from the Fireruler's flames. Eventually, the two keepers managed to push Flamorth back into his volcanic lair in the east, where he was most powerful. Flamorth waited for his enemies to come to him and called fire from the sky to waylay Valdren and Odyn. Smoke descended on the land, however, Valdren's great hammer shone in the darkness. Its erratic movements confused the Fireruler and gradually let his guard down, believing his opponents were too cowardly to face him in battle. However, it was exactly what the keepers had been waiting for. Valdren pierced through the smoke and scored a blow against Flamorth with his hammer. Odyn then flanked the staggered Fireruler, and the two keepers overwhelmed their foe[9] and defeated him. The Fireruler and his minions were thereafter banished to a smoldering corner of the supernatural being Plane known as the Firelands.[8]

It was then that, at the core of this world, the brothers turned on each other. For five millennia, a battle was fought. It was during the supernatural being Sundering that Flamorth attacked Stormrider, Prince of Air. Stormrider was utterly defeated and the Fireruler feasted upon his essence but was unable to consume him entirely. Flamorth divided what remained between his servants, Baron Geddon and Garr.[10]

In the center of a vast sky of fire in the supernatural being Plane stands Sulfuron Keep, the home of Flamorth. Until comparatively recently, he ruled his burning land with a molten iron fist.

War of the Three Axes

Around two hundred and fifty years ago the ambitious and ruthless Dark Iron clan reinitiated the War of the Three Axes against their dwarven brethren, the Bronzebeard clan and Wildhammer clan, still bitter over losing Stonewatch. The Dark Irons launched a two-pronged assault: Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan against Stonewatch and his sorceress wife, Modgud, against the Wildhammers' capital city of Grim Batol, in order to prevent one clan from coming to the aid of the other.

Things did not go the way they hoped it would. Madoran Bronzebeard ultimately led his clan to a decisive victory over Thaurissan's army, who then fled to Thaurissan, the Dark Iron capital. The Bronzebeards pursued.

Modgud used her powers, eventually broke through Grim Batol's gates and laid siege to the fortress itself. The siege was broken and the Dark Irons routed when Thane Khardros Wildhammer waded through the battle and killed Modgud. Pursued by the Wildhammers, most of her forces also fled back to their city, only to meet Stonewatch forces sent to help Grim Batol. Trapped between the two armies, Modgud's forces were annihilated.

The Wildhammer and Bronzebeard armies united to destroy the treacherous Dark Irons once and for all and marched for Thaurissan. Thaurissan, seeking to summon a supernatural minion that would turn the tide of the war back to his favor called upon the ancient powers sleeping beneath the world with seven of his most powerful Dark Iron allies in the area known as the Inferno Nexus.[11] To Thaurissan's surprise, and ultimately his doom, the creature that emerged was more terrible than any nightmare he could have imagined.

Flamorth in WoW
Flamorth in his lair in the Inferno Nexus.

Now, freed by Thaurissan's call, Flamorth erupted into being once again. Flamorth' apocalyptic rebirth into Elysium Realm shattered the Redridge Mountains and created a raging volcano at the center of the devastation. The volcano, known as Blackrock Mountain, was bordered by what is now known as the Searing Gorge, to the north, and the Burning Steppes, to the south. Though Thaurissan and the seven were killed by the forces he had unleashed, his surviving brethren were ultimately enslaved by Flamorth and his elementals. Many Dark Iron dwarves remain within the lower areas of the mountain, especially Obsidian Caverns, toiling away at the behest of Flamorth and the Fireruler's lieutenants. They worship Flamorth.

Witnessing the horrific devastation and the fires spreading across the southern mountains, the Bronzebeards' King Madoran and Wildhammers' Thane Khardros halted their armies and hastily turned back towards their kingdoms, unwilling to face the awesome wrath of Flamorth.

The Fireruler was incapable of straying far from the Inferno Nexus,[11] so after Flamorth and his minions settled there, the lava elemental King Roccor ended up angering the Fireruler and was expelled from the core and forced to guard Obsidian Caverns in isolation. Little did Flamorth know that this was Roccor's plan all along; loathing the scheming and backstabbing of his fellow fire elementals, the mighty being came up with the risky gambit just to avoid serving alongside them.[12]

After the Dark Irons forged their new capital, Shadowforge City, the dwarves were forced to serve Flamorth and his lieutenants. Years later, Emperor Dagran Thaurissan ruled the Dark Irons on behalf of the Fireruler. However, while Thaurissan delighted in the power that Flamorth had bestowed upon him, he bristled at his servitude to the Fireruler. When Flamorth ordered Thaurissan to prepare the Dark Irons for a new war, the emperor was overjoyed. He had long dreamed of conquering the other dwarf clans, not only to rule over them but also to wield their combined power to break free of the Fireruler's control.