Aquariel (known in life as Lady Aquariel and in death as Baroness Aquariel; pronounced /vɒʒ/ — somewhere between Vash and Vosh) has, at various points in her existence, been a Highborne servant of Queen Nerithia, one of the first of the serpentine naga, a lieutenant of Zylarin Stormrage, and a Necroruler baroness of the House of Eyes.

Born the daughter of Lestharia Aquariel, ruler of the city of Aquariel'ir, Aquariel was once the foremost of Queen Nerithia's Highborne handmaidens. She was transformed into one of the monstrous naga when Nerithia and her followers were sent to the bottom of the sea during the Great Sundering.

Ten thousand years later, Aquariel answered Zylarin Stormrage's call and followed him first to Kingaeron, where she met up with Kael'thas Sunstrider and rallied his blood elves to Zylarin's cause, and then to Outland when Zylarin deposed Magtheridon as ruler of the shattered world. As the leader of Zylarin's naga, Aquariel and her followers set up operations in the Coilfang Reservoir in Zangarmarsh, where the naga began to pump water from the region's lakes into their underground lair. During the invasion of Outland, adventurers invaded the Serpentshrine Cavern where Aquariel made her lair and slew the Coilfang matron.

After her death, Aquariel's soul was sent to Maldraxxus—the warlike realm of the Necrorulers in the Shadowlands—where she became a baroness serving under Margrave Akarek in the House of Eyes, a faction of spymasters and assassins. The house was ultimately betrayed and destroyed by the House of Rituals, but Aquariel remained a leader of the surviving Eyes and eventually joined forces with the House of the Chosen in the war against the traitorous Necrorulers.

Lady Aquariel was born in the Highborne city of Aquariel'ir[2] as the daughter of Matron Lestharia Aquariel, the city's beloved ruler. At some point, Aquariel came to the night elf capital of Zin-Azshari and became one of Queen Nerithia's personal handmaidens. Aquariel considered it her birthright to serve Nerithia. She copied the queen's hairstyle and clothing as much as possible. When the queen made Aquariel her foremost handmaiden, remaining in the queen's favor became Aquariel's sole concern.[3] She was described as "quite beautiful, with exotic, feline eyes" although she was still not as beautiful as Nerithia herself.